content/technology/architecture/components/application/construction/altinn-platform/events/_index.md, before:

---
title: Application construction components - Altinn Platform Events
linktitle: Events
description: The Events component in Altinn platform is constructed as an asp.net core web API application deployed as a docker container to a Kubernetes cluster.
tags: [architecture, solution]
---


The Events components expose REST-APIs for publishing and subscribing to events. The Azure function are responsible for pushing events
to subscriber webhooks. The below diagram shows the components

![Event architecture diagram](/technology/architecture/capabilities/runtime/integration/events/event_architecture_custom.svg "Altinn Event Architecture")

When a publish request is received it will push the event document to the event storage.
When a request is received it will query the events stored in the event storage.

## Api controllers

The following API controllers are defined

- [EventsController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/EventsController.cs) : responsible for registrating events and pull of events for consumers.
- [PushController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/PushController.cs) : responsible to validate if there is any subscriptions matching the event and if so authorize the subscriper before it pushes the event to the outbound queue
- [SubscriptionController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/SubscriptionController.cs) : responsible for managing subscriptions for consumers.

### Eventscontroller

The [EventsController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/EventsController.cs) in the Events component is the one receiving events from Apps and other sources. 

It verifies if the app is authorized to creates events for the given source and then store in to event storage.

It also exposes API to search for events and to get events. 

The access is controlled by the XACML Policy for the given App that is the source for an given event.

The [AuthorizationHelper](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Authorization/AuthorizationHelper.cs)
is responsible for creating and performing the request to the [Policy Decision Point](/technology/architecture/components/application/solution/altinn-platform/authorization/pdp/).


### PushController

[PushController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/PushController.cs) is called by the  [EventsInbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) function. 

Based on details from the Event it will identify matching subscriptions. 

For each match it will authorize the consumer using the Policy Authorization Point.

The [AuthorizationHelper](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Authorization/AuthorizationHelper.cs)
is responsible for creating and performing the request to the [Policy Decision Point](/technology/architecture/components/application/solution/altinn-platform/authorization/pdp/).

The access is controlled by the XACML Policy for the given App that is the source for an given event.

If consumer is Authorized the event will be added to the "events-outbound" queue and picked up by the EventsOutbound function. (see below)

### SubscriptionController

The [SubscriptionController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/SubscriptionController.cs) exposes API to 

- Add subscriptions
- Delete subscriptions
- Get subscriptions
- Validate subscriptions

## Event storage

To be able to get the search capability needed for the Events component we have choosen to use  [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/).

Using [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) makes is possible to sort the events based on a primary key and also makes it possible to search
over all events based on subject or source. 

The table structure 

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS events.events
(
    sequenceno BIGSERIAL,
    id character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    source character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    subject character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    "time" timestamptz  NOT NULL,
    type character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    cloudevent text COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT events_pkey PRIMARY KEY (sequenceno)
)
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS events.subscription
(
    id BIGSERIAL,
    sourcefilter character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default",
    subjectfilter character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default",
    typefilter character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default",
    consumer character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    endpointurl character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    createdby character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    validated BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    "time" timestamptz  NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT eventssubscription_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id)
)

```

Stored procedures is used to add, delete and query data from the above tables. 
See all stored procedures [here](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Migration).

#### Event sequencing

Events will be sequnced by sequence number that is the primary key of the Events table. 

### Indexing

We would need to have index on 


## Functions

As part of the Event Component there is 3 [Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/) used for pushing events to the consumers. Click on name for code.

 - [EventsInbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) : responsible for pushing new events to the push controller
 - [EventsOutbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsOutbound.cs) : responsible for pushing event to consumer webhook
 - [ValidateSubscription](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/ValidateSubscription.cs) : responsible for validating the endpoint given in a subscription. 

### EventsInbound

The [EventsInbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) function is triggered by QueueStorage changes in the "events-inbound" queue.

It just forward the event to the PushController through the [pushEventService](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Services/PushEventsService.cs).

The Function uses Platform Access token to authenticate itself for the PushController

It uses standard mechanismen for retry, if the call for pushcontroller fails.

### EventsOutbound

The [EventsOutbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) function is triggered byQueueStorage changes in the "events-outbound" queue.

It will try to push the event to given subscription endpoint given in the [CloudEventEnvelope](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Models/CloudEventEnvelope.cs)
that is put on the queue and containing the event.

This function is configured with [CustomQueueProcessorFactory](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Factories/CustomQueueProcessorFactory.cs) to handle retry if it is not possible to push event to the endpoint.

It will try send the event right away, but if the request to webhook fails  (Http status != 200) it will put the cloudevent back on the queue with a
defined wait time.
1. retries after 10 seconds
2. retries after 30 seconds
3. retries after 1 minute
4. retries after 5 minutes
5. retries after 10 minutes
6. retries after 30 minutes
7. retries after 1 hour
8. retries after 3 hours
9. retries after 6 hours
10. retries after 12 hours
11. retries after 12 hours

If it fails the 12. time it will put the event in the dead letter queue and will not try again.

### SubscriptionValidation

The [SubscriptionValidation](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/SubscriptionValidation.cs) function is triggered byQueueStorage changes in the "subscription-validation" queue.

It will try to validate the endpoing given in the [Subscription](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Models/Subscription.cs)
that is put on the queue.

This function is configured with [CustomQueueProcessorFactory](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Factories/CustomQueueProcessorFactory.cs) to handle retry if it is not possible to push event to the endpoint.

It will try send the event right away, but if the request to webhook fails (Http status != 200) it will put the cloudevent back on the queue with a
defined wait time.
1. retries after 10 seconds
2. retries after 30 seconds
3. retries after 1 minute
4. retries after 5 minutes
5. retries after 10 minutes
6. retries after 30 minutes
7. retries after 1 hour
8. retries after 3 hours
9. retries after 6 hours
10. retries after 12 hours
11. retries after 12 hours

If it fails the 12. time it will put the event in the dead letter queue and will not try again.

If endpoint responds with 200OK it will then set the subscription status to valid with calling the [validate](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/SubscriptionController.cs#L111) endpoint in the Subscription API.

Commit message:

Minor updated to events documentation (#610)

content/technology/architecture/components/application/construction/altinn-platform/events/_index.md, after:

---
title: Application construction components - Altinn Platform Events
linktitle: Events
description: The Events component in Altinn platform is constructed as an asp.net core web API application deployed as a docker container to a Kubernetes cluster.
tags: [architecture, solution]
---


The Events components expose REST-APIs for publishing and subscribing to events. The Azure function are responsible for pushing events
to subscriber webhooks. The below diagram shows the components

![Event architecture diagram](/technology/architecture/capabilities/runtime/integration/events/event_architecture_custom.svg "Altinn Event Architecture")

When a publish request is received it will push the event document to the event storage.
When a request is received it will query the events stored in the event storage.

## Api controllers

The following API controllers are defined

- [EventsController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/EventsController.cs) : responsible for registrating events and pull of events for consumers.
- [PushController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/PushController.cs) : responsible to validate if there is any subscriptions matching the event and if so authorize the subscriper before it pushes the event to the outbound queue
- [SubscriptionController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/SubscriptionController.cs) : responsible for managing subscriptions for consumers.

### Eventscontroller

The [EventsController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/EventsController.cs) in the Events component is the one receiving events from Apps and other sources. 

It verifies if the app is authorized to creates events for the given source and then store in to event storage.

It also exposes API to search for events and to get events. 

The access is controlled by the XACML Policy for the given App that is the source for an given event.

The [AuthorizationHelper](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Authorization/AuthorizationHelper.cs)
is responsible for creating and performing the request to the [Policy Decision Point](/technology/architecture/components/application/solution/altinn-platform/authorization/pdp/).


### PushController

[PushController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/PushController.cs) is called by the  [EventsInbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) function. 

Based on details from the Event it will identify matching subscriptions. 

For each match it will authorize the consumer using the Policy Authorization Point.

The [AuthorizationHelper](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Authorization/AuthorizationHelper.cs)
is responsible for creating and performing the request to the [Policy Decision Point](/technology/architecture/components/application/solution/altinn-platform/authorization/pdp/).

The access is controlled by the XACML Policy for the given App that is the source for an given event.

If consumer is Authorized the event will be added to the "events-outbound" queue and picked up by the EventsOutbound function. (see below)

### SubscriptionController

The [SubscriptionController](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/SubscriptionController.cs) exposes API to 

- Add subscriptions
- Delete subscriptions
- Get subscriptions
- Validate subscriptions

## Event storage

To be able to get the search capability needed for the Events component we have choosen to use  [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/).

Using [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) makes is possible to sort the events based on a primary key and also makes it possible to search
over all events based on subject or source. 

The table structure 

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS events.events
(
    sequenceno BIGSERIAL,
    id character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    source character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    subject character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    "time" timestamptz  NOT NULL,
    type character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    cloudevent text COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT events_pkey PRIMARY KEY (sequenceno)
)
```

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS events.subscription
(
    id BIGSERIAL,
    sourcefilter character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default",
    subjectfilter character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default",
    typefilter character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default",
    consumer character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    endpointurl character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    createdby character varying COLLATE pg_catalog."default" NOT NULL,
    validated BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    "time" timestamptz  NOT NULL,
    CONSTRAINT eventssubscription_pkey PRIMARY KEY (id)
)

```

Stored procedures is used to add, delete and query data from the above tables. 
See all stored procedures [here](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Migration).

#### Event sequencing

Events will be sequnced by sequence number that is the primary key of the Events table. 

### Indexing

The events table has indexes on the columns _subject_, _time_, _sourcefilter_.

## Functions

As part of the Event Component there is 3 [Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/) used for pushing events to the consumers. Click on name for code.

 - [EventsInbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) : responsible for pushing new events to the push controller
 - [EventsOutbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsOutbound.cs) : responsible for pushing event to consumer webhook
 - [ValidateSubscription](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/ValidateSubscription.cs) : responsible for validating the endpoint given in a subscription. 

### EventsInbound

The [EventsInbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) function is triggered by QueueStorage changes in the "events-inbound" queue.

It just forward the event to the PushController through the [pushEventService](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Services/PushEventsService.cs).

The Function uses Platform Access token to authenticate itself for the PushController

It uses standard mechanismen for retry, if the call for pushcontroller fails.

### EventsOutbound

The [EventsOutbound](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/EventsInbound.cs) function is triggered byQueueStorage changes in the "events-outbound" queue.

It will try to push the event to given subscription endpoint given in the [CloudEventEnvelope](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Models/CloudEventEnvelope.cs)
that is put on the queue and containing the event.

This function is configured with [CustomQueueProcessorFactory](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Factories/CustomQueueProcessorFactory.cs) to handle retry if it is not possible to push event to the endpoint.

It will try send the event right away, but if the request to webhook fails  (Http status != 200) it will put the cloudevent back on the queue with a
defined wait time.
1. retries after 10 seconds
2. retries after 30 seconds
3. retries after 1 minute
4. retries after 5 minutes
5. retries after 10 minutes
6. retries after 30 minutes
7. retries after 1 hour
8. retries after 3 hours
9. retries after 6 hours
10. retries after 12 hours
11. retries after 12 hours

If it fails the 12. time it will put the event in the dead letter queue and will not try again.

### SubscriptionValidation

The [SubscriptionValidation](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/SubscriptionValidation.cs) function is triggered byQueueStorage changes in the "subscription-validation" queue.

It will try to validate the endpoing given in the [Subscription](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Models/Subscription.cs)
that is put on the queue.

This function is configured with [CustomQueueProcessorFactory](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Functions/Factories/CustomQueueProcessorFactory.cs) to handle retry if it is not possible to push event to the endpoint.

It will try send the event right away, but if the request to webhook fails (Http status != 200) it will put the cloudevent back on the queue with a
defined wait time.
1. retries after 10 seconds
2. retries after 30 seconds
3. retries after 1 minute
4. retries after 5 minutes
5. retries after 10 minutes
6. retries after 30 minutes
7. retries after 1 hour
8. retries after 3 hours
9. retries after 6 hours
10. retries after 12 hours
11. retries after 12 hours

If it fails the 12. time it will put the event in the dead letter queue and will not try again.

If endpoint responds with 200OK it will then set the subscription status to valid with calling the [validate](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/Altinn.Platform/Altinn.Platform.Events/Events/Controllers/SubscriptionController.cs#L111) endpoint in the Subscription API.
