content/app/development/ux/components/Alert/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Alert
linktitle: Alert
description: The component can be used to display a message with different levels of severity.
schemaname: Alert # Component schema name used to autogenerate list of properies from json schema (replace with appropriate component name)
weight: 10 # Do not change, the componets will be sorted alphabetically
toc: true
---

{{% notice warning %}}
🚧 This documentation is a work in progress.
{{% /notice %}}

---

## Usage

Alerts are commonly used to display important information to users that should be highlighted.

### Anatomy

![Alert anatomy](Alert-anatomy.png)

{{% anatomy-list %}}
1. **Heading**: A brief and descriptive title.
2. **Icon**: A graphical symbol that conveys the severity of the alert.
3. **Text content**: The written information or message associated with the alert.
{{% /anatomy-list %}} 

<!-- 
Add the following sections if relevant:

### Behavior

(How the component behaves in different contexts)

### Style

(Visual styling (e.g. alignment, padding, dos and don'ts))

### Best Practices

(Industry standards, dos and don'ts)

### Content guidelines

(E.g. punctuation rules, standard labels, etc.)

### Accessibility

(Component-specific best practices for accessibility.)

### Mobile

(How to apply component in mobile environments.)

### Related

(List of related components or patterns, include links)

-->

## Properties

| **Property** | **Type**                                       | **Description**                                                                                |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `severity`   | string | String value indicating the severity level of the alert. This affect the styling of the alert. **Enum:** `"success" \| "info" \| "danger" \| "warning"` |

<!-- The following is an autogenerated list of the properties available for {{% title %}} based on the component's JSON schema file (linked below).

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating how we implement components, and the list of properties may not be entirely accurate.
{{% /notice %}} -->

<!-- The `component-props` shortcode automatically generates a list of component properties from the component's json schema.
The component name can be explicitly given as argument (e.g. `component-props "Grid"`).
If no argument is given, the shortcode pulls the component name from 'schemaname' in the frontmatter. -->

<!-- {{% component-props %}} -->

## Configuration

### Add component

You can add a component in [Altinn Studio Designer](/app/getting-started/ui-editor/) by dragging it from the left-side panel to the middle page area.
Selecting the component brings up its configuration panel on the right-hand side.

### Settings in Altinn Studio Designer

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating Altinn Studio with more configuration options!
 The documentation will be updated to reflect the changes once they are stable.
  In the meantime, there may be more options available in beta mode than is described here.
{{% /notice %}}

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}

Property settings available in Altinn Studio Designer.

![Altert settings panel](Alert-settings-panel.png "Alert settings panel")

- **Komponent-ID** (`id`): Automatically generated component ID (editable).
- **Ledetekst** (`textResourceBindings.title`): Alert heading.
- **Tekstinnhold** (`textResourceBindings.body`): Alert content.
- **Alvorlighetsgrad** (`severity`): Severity level. Influences the alert's styling (colors and icon).

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

Corresponding settings in the page's JSON file.

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines=""}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "severity": "info",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "",
          "body": ""
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

### Heading and content

You can add heading and content by creating a new or pick an existing [text resource](/app/development/ux/texts/#add-and-change-texts-in-an-application).

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert info innstillinger](Alert-text-settings.png "Alert text settings")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="7-10"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "info"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

### Severity level

By changing the severity level, you can change the styling (colors and icon) of the alert.

#### `info`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Info card](info.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert info innstillinger](Alert-info-settings.png "Alert info")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "info"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

#### `success`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Success card](success.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert success innstillinger](Alert-success-settings.png "Alert success")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "success"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

#### `warning`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Warning card](warning.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert warning innstillinger](Alert-warning-settings.png "Alert warning")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "warning"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

#### `danger`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Danger card](danger.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert danger innstillinger](Alert-danger-settings.png "Alert danger")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "danger"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

Commit message:

Update component docs (#1140)
* Added alias and related section with Panel component to Alert docs

Add alias to Alert component

Added 'Related' section to Alert with 'Panel' component listed

* Updated notice warning about settings in Studio

* Updated Accordion and AccordionGroup

* Fix links

---------

Co-authored-by: Therese Stokkan <therese.stokkan@accenture.com>

content/app/development/ux/components/Alert/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Alert
linktitle: Alert
description: The component can be used to display a message with different levels of severity.
schemaname: Alert # Component schema name used to autogenerate list of properies from json schema (replace with appropriate component name)
weight: 10 # Do not change, the componets will be sorted alphabetically
toc: true
aliases:
- alertcomponent
---

{{% notice warning %}}
🚧 This documentation is a work in progress.
{{% /notice %}}

---

## Usage

Alerts are commonly used to display important information to users that should be highlighted.

### Anatomy

![Alert anatomy](Alert-anatomy.png)

{{% anatomy-list %}}
1. **Heading**: A brief and descriptive title.
2. **Icon**: A graphical symbol that conveys the severity of the alert.
3. **Text content**: The written information or message associated with the alert.
{{% /anatomy-list %}} 

<!-- 
Add the following sections if relevant:

### Behavior

(How the component behaves in different contexts)

### Style

(Visual styling (e.g. alignment, padding, dos and don'ts))

### Best Practices

(Industry standards, dos and don'ts)

### Content guidelines

(E.g. punctuation rules, standard labels, etc.)

### Accessibility

(Component-specific best practices for accessibility.)

### Mobile

(How to apply component in mobile environments.)

-->
### Related

- [`Panel`](../panel/)


## Properties

| **Property** | **Type**                                       | **Description**                                                                                |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `severity`   | string | String value indicating the severity level of the alert. This affect the styling of the alert. **Enum:** `"success" \| "info" \| "danger" \| "warning"` |

<!-- The following is an autogenerated list of the properties available for {{% title %}} based on the component's JSON schema file (linked below).

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating how we implement components, and the list of properties may not be entirely accurate.
{{% /notice %}} -->

<!-- The `component-props` shortcode automatically generates a list of component properties from the component's json schema.
The component name can be explicitly given as argument (e.g. `component-props "Grid"`).
If no argument is given, the shortcode pulls the component name from 'schemaname' in the frontmatter. -->

<!-- {{% component-props %}} -->

## Configuration

### Add component

You can add a component in [Altinn Studio Designer](/app/getting-started/ui-editor/) by dragging it from the left-side panel to the middle page area.
Selecting the component brings up its configuration panel on the right-hand side.

### Settings in Altinn Studio Designer

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating Altinn Studio with more configuration options!
 The documentation is continuously updated, but more settings may be available than described here, and some settings may be in beta.
{{% /notice %}}

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}

Property settings available in Altinn Studio Designer.

![Altert settings panel](Alert-settings-panel.png "Alert settings panel")

- **Komponent-ID** (`id`): Automatically generated component ID (editable).
- **Ledetekst** (`textResourceBindings.title`): Alert heading.
- **Tekstinnhold** (`textResourceBindings.body`): Alert content.
- **Alvorlighetsgrad** (`severity`): Severity level. Influences the alert's styling (colors and icon).

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

Corresponding settings in the page's JSON file.

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines=""}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "severity": "info",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "",
          "body": ""
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

### Heading and content

You can add heading and content by creating a new or pick an existing [text resource](/app/development/ux/texts/#add-and-change-texts-in-an-application).

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert info innstillinger](Alert-text-settings.png "Alert text settings")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="7-10"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "info"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

### Severity level

By changing the severity level, you can change the styling (colors and icon) of the alert.

#### `info`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Info card](info.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert info innstillinger](Alert-info-settings.png "Alert info")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "info"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

#### `success`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Success card](success.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert success innstillinger](Alert-success-settings.png "Alert success")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "success"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

#### `warning`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Warning card](warning.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert warning innstillinger](Alert-warning-settings.png "Alert warning")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "warning"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

#### `danger`

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Example">}}
![Danger card](danger.png)
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}
![Alert danger innstillinger](Alert-danger-settings.png "Alert danger")
{{</content-version-container>}}

{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="11"}
{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
      {
        "id": "alert-id",
        "type": "Alert",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Vedrørende navneendring",
          "body": "Ved å bekrefte navneendring bekrefter du at du ønsker å endre navnet ditt."
        },
        "severity": "danger"
      }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}
