content/technology/architecture/capabilities/devops/analysisanddesign/_index.md, before:

---
title: Analysis & Design Capabilities
linktitle: Analysis & Design
description: Analysis & Design Capabilities are the capabilities needed to analyze needs and design solutions and applications for the Altinn 3 platform.
tags: [architecture, devops]
toc: false
---

## Analysis Enablement Capabilities

### Requirement Capture

Requirements are gathered through:

- input on Github
- talks with organization

For some pilots, we choose to create larger epics on Github to group requirements.

Some example issues are

- [The issue for supporting Sirius App for tax department](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues/3747)
- [The issue for supporting NSM POB](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues/4731)
  
See [development application components](../../../components/application/nonsolutionspecific/development/)  to get an overview of the tools and applications we use.

### User story Definition

The DevOps team has the capability to define user stories in our GitHub repository.
[See all user stories](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues?q=label%3Akind%2Fuser-story+).

### Requirement Validation

Product owners and architects together with the teams are responsible for validation of requirements.

### Requirement Traceability

Github keeps a full history on the different issues.

### Prototypes, Mock-Ups & Storyboarding

The devopsteam has the capability to create prototypes.

See development application components for tools used.

## Design Enablement Capabilities

### UI Design Enablement

We use Figma to design the UI elements.

### Data Modeling & Design Capability

The devops team has the capability for data modelling and design.

See [development application components](../../../components/application/nonsolutionspecific/development/) to get an overview of the tools and applications we use.

### Architecture Design Enablement

Architecture design is presented on this site using Markdown and Visio.

### Application Design Enablement

Application design is presented on this site using Markdown and Visio.

Commit message:

Devops Architecture capabilties updates (#689)
* updates

* More doc update capabilties

* updates

* fixed link

* updates

* updates

* updates

* updates

* updates

* more spell checking

* updates

* Some more description updates

* updates

* removed old diagram

* more text updates

content/technology/architecture/capabilities/devops/analysisanddesign/_index.md, after:

---
title: Analysis & Design Capabilities
linktitle: Analysis & Design
description: Analysis & Design Capabilities are the capabilities needed to analyze needs and design solutions and applications for the Altinn 3 platform.
tags: [architecture, devops]
toc: false
---

## Analysis Enablement Capabilities

### Requirement Capture

Requirements are gathered through:

- issues on Github
- talks with stakeholders using the platform (service owners and others)

For some pilots, we choose to create larger epics on Github to group requirements.

Some example issues are

- [The issue for supporting Sirius App for tax department](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues/3747)
- [The issue for supporting NSM POB](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues/4731)
  
See [development application components](../../../components/application/nonsolutionspecific/development/)  to get an overview of our tools and applications.

### User story Definition

The DevOps teams or stakeholders define user stories in our GitHub repositories

[See our repositories](/technology/architecture/capabilities/devops/projectmanagement/).

### Requirement Validation

Product owners and architects, and the teams are responsible for validating requirements.

This can be done through clarification on GitHub issues or meetings with stakeholders.

### Requirement Traceability

GitHub keeps a complete history of the different issues.

### Prototypes, Mock-Ups & Storyboarding

The DevOps teams can create prototypes when needed. 

See development application components for tools used.

## Design Enablement Capabilities

### UI Design Enablement

We use Figma to design the UI elements.

We have made a [Figma Library](/app/design/prototype/) available for anyone that wants to design apps.

And we have a Storybook Design system where all components are implemented.

See [Altinn Design System V2](https://designsystem.altinn.studio/)

### Data Modeling & Design Capability

The DevOps team has the capability for data modeling and design.

See [development application components](../../../components/application/nonsolutionspecific/development/) to get an overview of our tools and applications.

### Architecture Design Enablement

Architecture design is presented on this site using Markdown and SVG.

### Application Design Enablement

Application design is presented on this site using Markdown and SVG.
