content/broker/getting-started/developer-guides/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Altinn 3 Broker Developer guides
linktitle: Developer guides
description: How to get started with Altinn 3 Broker, for developers
tags: [Broker, guide]
toc: true
weight: 20
---

{{<children />}}

{{% notice warning  %}}
This section of the documentation is a work in progress.
There are sections with missing or only partial documentation.
{{% /notice %}}

Since Altinn Broker is open source, you can access our code in [our public github repo](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-broker) and build a local docker instance to test against.

We also welcome contributions to the solution.

See the [readme file at github](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-broker/blob/main/README.md) for an introduction to Altinn 3 Broker, and how to build and run it in your dev environment.

The Repo also contains a [PostMan collection](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-broker/blob/main/altinn3-broker-postman-collection.json) with examples.

Swagger for the File Transfer API is hosted [here](/api/broker/spec/).

## Overall API operation {#overall-api-operation}

To understand how the Broker API operates, including its dependencies and configuration steps, refer to the information below:

![Altinn Broker Setup Sequence](Altinn-broker-setup-sequence.png "Altinn-broker-setup-sequence")

You need to have performed the steps in [Getting started](../../getting-started/) to setup the Access requirements.

## Overall process {#overall-process}

Overall process flow reflect the implemented reality of the [file transfer process](../../explanation/basic-concepts/#file-transfer-process-states)

All operations are asynchronous, unless otherwise noted.
As such, you should implement Event subscriptions to make your process optimized instead of relying on polling for status.

## Authentication {#authentication}

For all operations you will need to Authenticate using your Maskinporten Client 
then [acquire an Altinn Token from Altinn Authentication](https://docs.altinn.studio/authentication/reference/architecture/accesstoken/).

Use the Altinn Token as a Bearer token for all Broker API requests along with the APIM subscription key as a header with the key `Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key`.

Commit message:

Improve language of Broker Documentation part 1 (#1713)
* Improve language of Broker Documentation in both norwegian and english. 

---------

Co-authored-by: Ragnar Inge Fatland <acn-rfatl@ai-dev.no>
Co-authored-by: Hammerbeck <andreas.hammerbeck@digdir.no>
Co-authored-by: Andreas Hammerbeck <Andreas_93@hotmail.com>

content/broker/getting-started/developer-guides/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Developer guide
linktitle: Developer guides
description: Welcome to the developer guide for Altinn Broker! This part of the documentation will help you to get started using Altinn Broker, and how to best exploit the platform. Be aware that the documentation is still a work-in-progress, and that some sections are in a partial or incomplete state.
tags: [Broker, guide]
toc: true
weight: 20
---

{{<children />}}

{{% notice warning  %}}
This section of the documentation is a work in progress.
There are sections with missing or only partial documentation.
{{% /notice %}}

Since Altinn Broker is open source, you can access our code in [our public github repo](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-broker) and build a local docker instance to test against.

We also welcome contributions to the solution.

See the [readme file at github](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-broker/blob/main/README.md) for an introduction to Altinn 3 Broker, and how to build and run it in your dev environment.

The Repo also contains a [PostMan collection](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-broker/blob/main/altinn3-broker-postman-collection.json) with examples.

Swagger for the File Transfer API is hosted [here](/api/broker/spec/).

## Overall API operation {#overall-api-operation}

To understand how the Broker API operates, including its dependencies and configuration steps, refer to the information below:

![Altinn Broker Setup Sequence](Altinn-broker-setup-sequence.png "Altinn-broker-setup-sequence")

You need to have performed the steps in [Getting started](../../getting-started/) to setup the Access requirements.

## Overall process {#overall-process}

Overall process flow reflect the implemented reality of the [file transfer process](../../explanation/basic-concepts/#file-transfer-process-states)

All operations are asynchronous, unless otherwise noted.
As such, you should implement Event subscriptions to make your process optimized instead of relying on polling for status.

## Authentication {#authentication}

For all operations you will need to Authenticate using your Maskinporten Client 
then [acquire an Altinn Token from Altinn Authentication](https://docs.altinn.studio/authentication/reference/architecture/accesstoken/).

Use the Altinn Token as a Bearer token for all Broker API requests along with the APIM subscription key as a header with the key `Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key`.
