content/technology/architecture/capabilities/devops/softwareconfiguration/_index.md, before:

---
title: Software Configuration & Release Management Capabilities
linktitle: Software Configuration
description: Software Configuration & Release Management Capabilities process of tracking changes and handling new releases for an application
tags: [architecture, todo, devops]
toc: false
---

## Version, Release & Artefact Management Capabilities

### Version Management

Azure DevOps pipelines control the version of each component. Each build gets its version.
So the DevOps team can install an older component version at any time.
In addition, the published NuGet packages have different versions handled by NuGet.

### Software Configuration Management

We use value files in Azure DevOps for Helm Charts to control the different configurations for different environments. In addition, Azure Key vaults store configuration secrets.

### Release Management

Azure DevOps Release Pipelines control the different releases in different environments.

From the Release Pipeline Dashboard, the DevOps team can see releases. For example, in the below screenshot, you see info about release 364 of the Authorization component.

![Release Managenet](releasemanagement1.png "Release management in Azure DevOps")

We also create releases in GitHub to map features with a given release deployed. There is no direct connection between the Azure DevOps release and the Github release.

### Continuous Del. Pipeline Management

The goal is to deliver continuously. For our AT environments, new code deploys automatically. For TT02 and production, there is currently a weekly deployment. Production deployment is on Tuesday, and TT02 is on Wednesday.

## Deployment Capabilities

### Deployment Orchestration Capabilities

Azure DevOps pipelines manage the orchestration of deploys. Both automatic deploys and deploys that require approvals by team members.

![Azure Devops](deployorchestration.png "Deploy orchestration - Approval of production deploy")


See [development application components](/technology/architecture/components/application/nonsolutionspecific/development/#deployment-orchestration) to get a overview over tools and application we use.

{{<children />}}

Commit message:

scopes changes (#905)
* scopes changes

* Updates release management

* updates

content/technology/architecture/capabilities/devops/softwareconfiguration/_index.md, after:

---
title: Software Configuration & Release Management Capabilities
linktitle: Software Configuration
description: Software Configuration & Release Management Capabilities process of tracking changes and handling new releases for an application
tags: [architecture, todo, devops]
toc: false
---

## Version, Release & Artefact Management Capabilities

### Version Management

Azure DevOps pipelines control the version of each component. Each build gets its version.
So the DevOps team can install an older component version at any time.
In addition, the published NuGet packages have different versions handled by NuGet.

### Software Configuration Management

We use value files in Azure DevOps for Helm Charts to control the different configurations for different environments. In addition, Azure Key vaults store configuration secrets.

### Release Management


#### Azure Devops

Most applicatons have release management in Azure DevOps.

Azure DevOps Release Pipelines control the different releases in different environments.

From the Release Pipeline Dashboard, the DevOps team can see releases. For example, in the below screenshot, you see info about release 364 of the Authorization component.

![Release Managenet](releasemanagement1.png "Release management in Azure DevOps")


#### Github Release Management

We have started using Github Actions to perform build for some components. 

The first Component is Access Managment Frontend

- [Build and AT deploy](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-access-management-frontend/actions/workflows/build-publish-deploy-to-at.yml)
- [Schedule Release](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-access-management-frontend/actions/workflows/scheduled-release.yml)
- [Deploy TT/Prod workflow](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-access-management-frontend/actions/workflows/deploy-to-environment.yml)

The Build Action build codes and publish container to Github Container Registry

The Schedule Release Action tags the last release (code and container)

Deploy trigger deploy to tt or prod based on tag


### Continuous Del. Pipeline Management

The goal is to deliver continuously. For our AT environments, new code deploys automatically. For TT02 and production, there is currently a weekly deployment. Production deployment is on Tuesday, and TT02 is on Wednesday.

## Deployment Capabilities

### Deployment Orchestration Capabilities

Azure DevOps pipelines manage the orchestration of deploys. Both automatic deploys and deploys that require approvals by team members.

![Azure Devops](deployorchestration.png "Deploy orchestration - Approval of production deploy")


See [development application components](/technology/architecture/components/application/nonsolutionspecific/development/#deployment-orchestration) to get a overview over tools and application we use.

{{<children />}}
