content/app/development/ux/components/_component-template/_index.nb.md, before:

---
title: Komponent-mal
linktitle: Komponent
description: Kort beskrivelse av komponenten
schemaname: Checkboxes # Component schema name used to autogenerate list of properies from json schema
hidden: true # Remove when creating new component page from template
---

**For et eksempel, se [Avkrysningsbokser](../checkbox/).**

## Bruk

<!-- Brief description of component and how it is used. -->

### Anatomi

<!-- 
Image/diagram with numbered callouts. Use basic version of component with good copy (text).
Include key with description of callouts.

Example:
1\. *Heading* – Question or prompt.  
2\. *Checkbox* – The selection control.   
-->

### Oppførsel

<!-- How the component behaves in different contexts (optional) -->

### Stil

<!-- Visual styling (alignment, padding, dos and don'ts) -->

### Beste praksis

<!-- Industry standards, dos and don'ts -->

### Veiledning for innhold

<!-- E.g. punctuation rules, standard labels, etc. -->

### Relatert

<!-- List of related components or patterns, include links -->

## Legg til og konfigurer komponent

Den enkleste måten å legge til en konponent på er via Altinn Studios [UI editor](/nb/app/getting-started/ui-editor/).
<!-- Short description of how to (screenshot?) -->
<!-- If not available in UI editor, describe how to add it with local development. -->

{{% expandlarge id="configuration-asd" header="Konfigurere komponent i UI editor" %}}

*Kommer snart*
<!-- Description of how to add and configure the compoent in the GUI. -->

<!-- Add image(s) and key with description. -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

## Egenskaper

{{% expandlarge id="property-list" header="Liste over egenskaper" %}}

Følgende er en automatisk generert liste over egenskapene som er tilgjengelige for {{% title %}} basert på komponentens JSON-skjemafil:

<!-- List of component properties autogenerated from json schema.
The component name can be explicitly given as argument (e.g. {{% component-props "Grid" %}}).
If no argument is given, the shortcode pulls the component name from 'schemaname' in the frontmatter. -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

{{% expandlarge id="properties-description" header="Beskrivelse av egenskaper" %}}

*Kommer snart*
<!-- More detailed description of properties -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

{{% expandlarge id="examples" header="Eksempler konfigurasjon" %}}

*Kommer snart*
<!-- Examples of component configurations.
Use screenshots of json config and/or link to repo if appropriate. -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

Commit message:

Created hidden _checkboxExample pages, removed component props shortcode from checkbox, cleanup

content/app/development/ux/components/_component-template/_index.nb.md, after:

---
title: Komponent-mal
linktitle: Komponent
description: Kort beskrivelse av komponenten
schemaname: Checkboxes # Component schema name used to autogenerate list of properies from json schema
hidden: true # Remove when creating new component page from template
weight: 10
---

**For et eksempel, se [AvkrysningsbokserEksempel](../_checkboxexample/).**

## Bruk

<!-- Brief description of component and how it is used. -->

### Anatomi

<!-- 
Image/diagram with numbered callouts. Use basic version of component with good copy (text).
Include key with description of callouts.

Example:
1\. *Heading* – Question or prompt.  
2\. *Checkbox* – The selection control.   
-->

### Oppførsel

<!-- How the component behaves in different contexts (optional) -->

### Stil

<!-- Visual styling (alignment, padding, dos and don'ts) -->

### Beste praksis

<!-- Industry standards, dos and don'ts -->

### Veiledning for innhold

<!-- E.g. punctuation rules, standard labels, etc. -->

### Relatert

<!-- List of related components or patterns, include links -->

## Legg til og konfigurer komponent

Den enkleste måten å legge til en komponent på er via Altinn Studios [UI editor](/nb/app/getting-started/ui-editor/).
<!-- Short description of how to (screenshot?) -->
<!-- If not available in UI editor, describe how to add it with local development. -->

{{% expandlarge id="configuration-asd" header="Konfigurere komponent i UI editor" %}}

*Kommer snart*
<!-- Description of how to add and configure the compoent in the GUI. -->

<!-- Add image(s) and key with description. -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

## Egenskaper

{{% expandlarge id="property-list" header="Liste over egenskaper" %}}

Følgende er en automatisk generert liste over egenskapene som er tilgjengelige for {{% title %}} basert på komponentens JSON-skjemafil:

*Kommer snart*
<!-- Insert shortcode `component-props` that automatically generates a list of component properties from the component's json schema.
The component name can be explicitly given as argument (e.g. `component-props "Grid"`).
If no argument is given, the shortcode pulls the component name from 'schemaname' in the frontmatter. -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

{{% expandlarge id="properties-description" header="Beskrivelse av egenskaper" %}}

*Kommer snart*
<!-- More detailed description of properties -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}

{{% expandlarge id="examples" header="Eksempler konfigurasjon" %}}

*Kommer snart*
<!-- Examples of component configurations.
Use screenshots of json config and/or link to repo if appropriate. -->

{{% /expandlarge %}}
