content/broker/reference/terminology/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Terminology
linktitle: Terminology
description: Altinn 3 Terminology
tags: []
toc: false
weight: 10
---

The following table gives brief descriptions of the main terms used to describe
Altinn 3 Correspondence. Also see https://docs.altinn.studio/technology/terms/ and <https://data.norge.no/concepts>.

| **Term**                       | **Explanation**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Broker                         | A 'broker' facilitates transactions, negotiations, or agreements between two parties, such as buyers and sellers, or providers and consumers. |
| Customer                       | In the context of Altinn, 'customer' is  associated with 'service owner'. |
| Data Consumer                  | A 'data consumer' is an individual or system that uses data provided by data sources or services. Also see 'recipient.
| Data Holder                    | ‘Data holder’ means a legal person, including public sector bodies and international organisations, or a natural person who is not a data subject with respect to the specific data in question, which, in accordance with applicable law, has the right to grant access to or to share certain personal data or non-personal data. |
| Data Provider                  | A 'data provider' is an entity that supplies or grants access to data.  Also see 'sender. |
| Document                       | A 'document' refers to any form of recorded content, whether in digital or paper format, used to communicate, store, or present information, ranging from text and images to diagrams and multimedia. It serves various purposes, including legal evidence, historical records, educational material, or business transactions, facilitating the sharing and preservation of knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End user                       | An 'end user' is the final consumer of the services in questions, typically human users through a graphical user interface (GUI).  |
| End user system                | An 'end user system' provides the services and user interface for end users. |
| File                           | A digital container used to store, manage, and manipulate data on a computer system or network. It can consist of text, images, audio, video, or other types of data, and is typically organized within a file system that allows for easy retrieval and access. |
| File transfer                  | The process of moving or copying data over a computer network or through data storage devices.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| File transfer broker           | A 'file transfer broker' is a system or service that acts as an intermediary to facilitate the secure and efficient exchange of files between different parties or systems. Also see 'message broker'. |
| Intermediary                   | An 'intermediary' is an entity that acts as a middleman or mediator between two parties in a transaction or communication process. |
| Managed File Transfer (MFT)    | 'Managed file transfer' is a solution or service that facilitates and manages the secure transfer of data between systems. It provides a more reliable and secure alternative to traditional file transfer methods, by ensuring the encryption of data in transit and at rest, and offering better management and monitoring capabilities. |
| Message Broker                 | A ‘message broker’ is a system or service that acts as an intermediary to facilitate message exchange between different parties or systems. |
| On-premise                     | 'On-premise' means installation and operation of software and technology infrastructure directly within an organization's physical facilities, rather than hosted remotely or in the cloud. |
| Process                        | A series of actions or steps taken to achieve a particular end.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Recipient                      | An individual or entity that receives a message, package, or service from a sender. Also see Data Consumer. |
| Sender                         | An individual or entity that initiates the transmission of a message or data to one or more recipients. Also see Data Provider. |
| Service Owner                  | In the context of Altinn, a 'service owner' refers to an entity responsible for the development, management, and maintenance of a particular service within the Altinn platform. |
| User Journey                   | A 'user journey' is a visual or narrative representation of a user's interactions with a product or service from start to finish. |

<!--

A longer list of terms. kept as a comment until further: 

| **Term**                       | **Explanation**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Case                           | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Case folder                    | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Case management                | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Cloud                          | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Consumer                       | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Data Broker                    | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Data Holder                    | ‘Data holder’ means a legal person, including public sector bodies and international organisations, or a natural person who is not a data subject with respect to the specific data in question, which, in accordance with applicable Union or national law, has the right to grant access to or to share certain personal data or non-personal data. |
| Dialog                         | A 'dialog' is a conversation between two or more people or entities, typically characterized by an exchange of ideas, information, or sentiments.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Document                       | A 'document' refers to any form of recorded content, whether in digital or paper format, used to communicate, store, or present information, ranging from text and images to diagrams and multimedia. It serves various purposes, including legal evidence, historical records, educational material, or business transactions, facilitating the sharing and preservation of knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End-to-end process             | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End user                       | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End user system                | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Enterprise                     | TBD. Note: Virtual enterprise, end-to-end processes and seamless services                                                                                                                                                                                |
| File                           | A digital container used to store, manage, and manipulate data on a computer system or network. It can consist of text, images, audio, video, or other types of data, and is typically organized within a file system that allows for easy retrieval and access. |
| File transfer                  | The process of moving or copying data over a computer network or through data storage devices.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Graphical User Interface (GUI) | A visual interface that allows human users to interact with electronic devices using icons, buttons, and other graphical elements instead of text-based command lines. |
| Intermediary                   | an entity that acts as a middleman or mediator between two parties in a transaction or communication process. |
| Managed File Transfer (MFT)    | A solution or service that facilitates and manages the secure transfer of data between systems. It provides a more reliable and secure alternative to traditional file transfer methods, by ensuring the encryption of data in transit and at rest, and offering better management and monitoring capabilities. |
| Message Broker                 | A solution or service that enables communication between different applications by translating and routing messages. |
| On-premise                     | Installation and operation of software and technology infrastructure directly within an organization's physical facilities, rather than hosted remotely or in the cloud.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Process                        | A series of actions or steps taken to achieve a particular end.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Provider                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Recipient                      | An individual or entity that receives a message, package, or service from a sender. |
| Seamless services              | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Sender                         | An individual or entity that initiates the transmission of a message or data to one or more recipients. |
| Service-based Routing          | See https://www.ehelse.no/standardisering/om-standardisering-i-e-helse/tjenestebasert-adressering                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| User Journey                   | A 'user journey' is a visual or narrative representation of a user's interactions with a product or service from start to finish. |

-->

Notes: 
* In the context of Altinn Correspondence, the terms _Data Provider_ and _Sender_ may be assumed to mean the same.
* In the context of Altinn Correspondence, the terms _Data Consumer_ and _Recipient_ may be assumed to mean the same.
  <!-- are used interchangeably. -->

Commit message:

fix wrong naming in Broker terminology (#1792)
* fix wrong naming in Broker terminology

* Fix wrong naming in correspondence

* more fixes of wrong terminology

* plural in file transfer

---------

Co-authored-by: Hammerbeck <andreas.hammerbeck@digdir.no>

content/broker/reference/terminology/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Terminology
linktitle: Terminology
description: Terminology for Altinn 3 Broker
tags: []
toc: false
weight: 10
---

The following table gives brief descriptions of the main terms used to describe
Altinn 3 Broker. Also see https://docs.altinn.studio/technology/terms/ and <https://data.norge.no/concepts>.

| **Term**                       | **Explanation**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Broker                         | A 'broker' facilitates transactions, negotiations, or agreements between two parties, such as buyers and sellers, or providers and consumers. |
| Customer                       | In the context of Altinn, 'customer' is  associated with 'service owner'. |
| Data Consumer                  | A 'data consumer' is an individual or system that uses data provided by data sources or services. Also see 'recipient.
| Data Holder                    | ‘Data holder’ means a legal person, including public sector bodies and international organisations, or a natural person who is not a data subject with respect to the specific data in question, which, in accordance with applicable law, has the right to grant access to or to share certain personal data or non-personal data. |
| Data Provider                  | A 'data provider' is an entity that supplies or grants access to data.  Also see 'sender. |
| Document                       | A 'document' refers to any form of recorded content, whether in digital or paper format, used to communicate, store, or present information, ranging from text and images to diagrams and multimedia. It serves various purposes, including legal evidence, historical records, educational material, or business transactions, facilitating the sharing and preservation of knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End user                       | An 'end user' is the final consumer of the services in questions, typically human users through a graphical user interface (GUI).  |
| End user system                | An 'end user system' provides the services and user interface for end users. |
| File                           | A digital container used to store, manage, and manipulate data on a computer system or network. It can consist of text, images, audio, video, or other types of data, and is typically organized within a file system that allows for easy retrieval and access. |
| File transfer                  | The process of moving or copying data over a computer network or through data storage devices.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| File transfer broker           | A 'file transfer broker' is a system or service that acts as an intermediary to facilitate the secure and efficient exchange of files between different parties or systems. Also see 'message broker'. |
| Intermediary                   | An 'intermediary' is an entity that acts as a middleman or mediator between two parties in a transaction or communication process. |
| Managed File Transfer (MFT)    | 'Managed file transfer' is a solution or service that facilitates and manages the secure transfer of data between systems. It provides a more reliable and secure alternative to traditional file transfer methods, by ensuring the encryption of data in transit and at rest, and offering better management and monitoring capabilities. |
| Message Broker                 | A ‘message broker’ is a system or service that acts as an intermediary to facilitate message exchange between different parties or systems. |
| On-premise                     | 'On-premise' means installation and operation of software and technology infrastructure directly within an organization's physical facilities, rather than hosted remotely or in the cloud. |
| Process                        | A series of actions or steps taken to achieve a particular end.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Recipient                      | An individual or entity that receives a message, package, or service from a sender. Also see Data Consumer. |
| Sender                         | An individual or entity that initiates the transmission of a message or data to one or more recipients. Also see Data Provider. |
| Service Owner                  | In the context of Altinn, a 'service owner' refers to an entity responsible for the development, management, and maintenance of a particular service within the Altinn platform. |
| User Journey                   | A 'user journey' is a visual or narrative representation of a user's interactions with a product or service from start to finish. |

<!--

A longer list of terms. kept as a comment until further: 

| **Term**                       | **Explanation**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Case                           | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Case folder                    | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Case management                | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Cloud                          | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Consumer                       | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Data Broker                    | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Data Holder                    | ‘Data holder’ means a legal person, including public sector bodies and international organisations, or a natural person who is not a data subject with respect to the specific data in question, which, in accordance with applicable Union or national law, has the right to grant access to or to share certain personal data or non-personal data. |
| Dialog                         | A 'dialog' is a conversation between two or more people or entities, typically characterized by an exchange of ideas, information, or sentiments.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Document                       | A 'document' refers to any form of recorded content, whether in digital or paper format, used to communicate, store, or present information, ranging from text and images to diagrams and multimedia. It serves various purposes, including legal evidence, historical records, educational material, or business transactions, facilitating the sharing and preservation of knowledge.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End-to-end process             | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End user                       | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| End user system                | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Enterprise                     | TBD. Note: Virtual enterprise, end-to-end processes and seamless services                                                                                                                                                                                |
| File                           | A digital container used to store, manage, and manipulate data on a computer system or network. It can consist of text, images, audio, video, or other types of data, and is typically organized within a file system that allows for easy retrieval and access. |
| File transfer                  | The process of moving or copying data over a computer network or through data storage devices.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Graphical User Interface (GUI) | A visual interface that allows human users to interact with electronic devices using icons, buttons, and other graphical elements instead of text-based command lines. |
| Intermediary                   | an entity that acts as a middleman or mediator between two parties in a transaction or communication process. |
| Managed File Transfer (MFT)    | A solution or service that facilitates and manages the secure transfer of data between systems. It provides a more reliable and secure alternative to traditional file transfer methods, by ensuring the encryption of data in transit and at rest, and offering better management and monitoring capabilities. |
| Message Broker                 | A solution or service that enables communication between different applications by translating and routing messages. |
| On-premise                     | Installation and operation of software and technology infrastructure directly within an organization's physical facilities, rather than hosted remotely or in the cloud.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Process                        | A series of actions or steps taken to achieve a particular end.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Provider                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| Recipient                      | An individual or entity that receives a message, package, or service from a sender. |
| Seamless services              | TBD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Sender                         | An individual or entity that initiates the transmission of a message or data to one or more recipients. |
| Service-based Routing          | See https://www.ehelse.no/standardisering/om-standardisering-i-e-helse/tjenestebasert-adressering                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| User Journey                   | A 'user journey' is a visual or narrative representation of a user's interactions with a product or service from start to finish. |

-->

Notes: 
* In the context of Altinn Broker, the terms _Data Provider_ and _Sender_ may be assumed to mean the same.
* In the context of Altinn Broker, the terms _Data Consumer_ and _Recipient_ may be assumed to mean the same.
  <!-- are used interchangeably. -->
