content/broker/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Altinn 3 Broker
linktitle: Broker
description: Altinn 3 Broker offers managed file transfer with support for large files and advanced features for information security, status monitoring and quality of service.
tags: [Broker]
toc: false
weight: 1
---


{{<children />}}

## What you get with Altinn Broker
An overview and description of the key functionalities and features of Altinn Broker.

### End-to-end message exchange
Altinn Formidling offers end-to-end message exchange, from creation, sending, receiving to tracking messages. This ensures that all parts of the messaging flow are handled efficiently and securely.

### Support for large payloads
A unique feature of Altinn Broker is its ability to handle large data volumes (payloads). We aim to support very large payloads in the near future. This is the solution for those who need to transfer large amounts of information efficiently and securely.

### GUI and API access
Users have access to all functionalities through both a user-friendly interface (GUI) and via APIs. This provides you with the flexibility to integrate Altinn Formidling into your own systems, allowing you to automate your processes.

### Notifications and tracking
The system supports detailed notification and tracking mechanisms. This includes notifications in accordance with the E-Government Regulation, ensuring that you are always updated on the status of your messages. The tracking provides a complete overview of the messaging flow, including delivery status and confirmations.

### High degree of auditability and detailed access control
Altinn Broker offers a high degree of auditability, meaning that all events and processes are logged carefully for verification. The system also supports refined and detailed access control, ensuring that only authorized users can access specific messages or functionalities.

### Support for various file formats
The solution is flexible and supports both structured and unstructured files. This customization allows for adaptation to a wide range of use cases and data formats.

### Integrations and cloud Support
Altinn Broker seeks to provide as standardized integrations as possible with other common solutions, easing integration with existing systems. The solution also offers buffering to handle large data volumes. It can be configured to use your own cloud solution for storage, should you have requirements for this.

### Overview of your consumption
Altinn Broker utilizes Azure cloud solutions, allowing you to monitor your consumption of cloud resources. This includes monitoring data usage, processing capacity, storage, and other relevant resources. This ensures that you stay within budgeted limits and can optimize the use of cloud resources for better cost-effectiveness.

Commit message:

fix wrong naming in Broker terminology (#1792)
* fix wrong naming in Broker terminology

* Fix wrong naming in correspondence

* more fixes of wrong terminology

* plural in file transfer

---------

Co-authored-by: Hammerbeck <andreas.hammerbeck@digdir.no>

content/broker/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Altinn 3 Broker
linktitle: Broker
description: Altinn 3 Broker offers managed file transfer with support for large files and advanced features for information security, status monitoring and quality of service.
tags: [Broker]
toc: false
weight: 1
---


{{<children />}}

## What you get with Altinn Broker
An overview and description of the key functionalities and features of Altinn Broker.

### End-to-end file transfers
Altinn Formidling offers end-to-end file transfers, from creation, sending, receiving to tracking file transfers. This ensures that all parts of the messaging flow are handled efficiently and securely.

### Support for large payloads
A unique feature of Altinn Broker is its ability to handle large data volumes (payloads). We aim to support very large payloads in the near future. This is the solution for those who need to transfer large amounts of information efficiently and securely.

### GUI and API access
Users have access to all functionalities through both a user-friendly interface (GUI) and via APIs. This provides you with the flexibility to integrate Altinn Formidling into your own systems, allowing you to automate your processes.

### Notifications and tracking
The system supports detailed notification and tracking mechanisms. This includes notifications in accordance with the E-Government Regulation, ensuring that you are always updated on the status of your transfers. The tracking provides a complete overview of the messaging flow, including delivery status and confirmations.

### High degree of auditability and detailed access control
Altinn Broker offers a high degree of auditability, meaning that all events and processes are logged carefully for verification. The system also supports refined and detailed access control, ensuring that only authorized users can access specific transfers or functionalities.

### Support for various file formats
The solution is flexible and supports both structured and unstructured files. This customization allows for adaptation to a wide range of use cases and data formats.

### Integrations and cloud Support
Altinn Broker seeks to provide as standardized integrations as possible with other common solutions, easing integration with existing systems. The solution also offers buffering to handle large data volumes. It can be configured to use your own cloud solution for storage, should you have requirements for this.

### Overview of your consumption
Altinn Broker utilizes Azure cloud solutions, allowing you to monitor your consumption of cloud resources. This includes monitoring data usage, processing capacity, storage, and other relevant resources. This ensures that you stay within budgeted limits and can optimize the use of cloud resources for better cost-effectiveness.
