content/notifications/send-notifications/get-started/user-guide/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: User guide
linktitle: User guide
weight: 10
description: "A user guide for the notification service"
---

{{% notice info %}}
We are working on providing you with new and updated guidelines on usage of Altinn Notification. 
In the meantime existing guidelines for sending notifications through Altinn 2 also apply to Altinn Notfications. 


[Please familiarize yourself with existing documentation and guidelines](https://altinn.github.io/docs/utviklingsguider/varsling/)
{{% /notice %}}

## Notification
### SMS
- Mobile number must conain country code, perferrably with "+", while "00" would also work. i.e. +47900XXXXX, 0047900XXXXX
- Notificaiton to 5 digits number aren't supported. Therefore the mobile number must need to be more than 5 digits.
- Norwegian mobile number must need to start with "4" or "9" after the country code "+47".
  - Valid Mobile Number Example: +47400XXXXX, +47900XXXXX, 0047400XXXXX, 0047900XXXXX
  - Invalid Mobile Number Example: +47500XXXXX, +47600XXXXX, 0047500XXXXX, 0047600XXXXX
- We aslo support international mobile numbers(outside of Norway) to send SMS as long as they are valid and provided with country code.

<!---
{{% notice info %}}
TODO: say something about "varsel" vs "melding" or "beskjed". Kan brukes til begge deler. 
What is important to think about ? 
{{% /notice %}}
 
### Communication with private persons
[Kontakt- og reservasjonsregisteret](https://eid.difi.no/nb/kontakt-og-reservasjonsregisteret) 
(the common contact register) is used to retrieve contact information when an organisation sends a notification 
through Altinn to a private person without providing the contact details to use. 

In using this register both Altinn, and the sender of the notification,
must adhere to [eForvaltningsforskriften §29](https://lovdata.no/forskrift/2004-06-25-988/§29). 

We have summarized some of the information here, but encourage you to familiarize yourself with 
[Digitaliseringsdirektoratet's guidelines for using the register](https://samarbeid.digdir.no/kontaktregisteret/retningslinjer-bruk-av-kontakt-og-reservasjonsregisteret/143). 


Altinn Notifications should be used to support the execution of your organisations public authority. Meaning the use 
should be linked to your organisation's _social mission_ and not for
commercial purposes, marketing, or any other use that can be considered as private law.

Altinn Notifications should be used when the message communicated in the notification contains 
information that is important for the subject to receive and/or is important for the sending organisation 
that the recipient receives.

### Communication with persons as an entity of an organisation 

### What should a notification include
Varselet bør inneholde:
- beskrivelse av oppgaven,
- konkret hva den gjelder,
- hvem som er ansvarlig/kan løse oppgaven
- informer gjerne også om frist for oppgaven
-->

Commit message:

Comments regarding country codes added

content/notifications/send-notifications/get-started/user-guide/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: User guide
linktitle: User guide
weight: 10
description: "A user guide for the notification service"
---

{{% notice info %}}
We are working on providing you with new and updated guidelines on usage of Altinn Notification. 
In the meantime existing guidelines for sending notifications through Altinn 2 also apply to Altinn Notfications. 


[Please familiarize yourself with existing documentation and guidelines](https://altinn.github.io/docs/utviklingsguider/varsling/)
{{% /notice %}}

## Notification
### SMS
- Mobile number must conain country code, perferrably with "+", while "00" would also work. i.e. +47900XXXXX, 0047900XXXXX
- Notificaiton to 5 digits number aren't supported. Therefore the mobile number must need to be more than 5 digits.
- Norwegian mobile number must need to start with "4" or "9" after the country code "+47".
  - Valid Mobile Number Example: +47400XXXXX, +47900XXXXX, 0047400XXXXX, 0047900XXXXX
  - Invalid Mobile Number Example: +47500XXXXX, +47600XXXXX, 0047500XXXXX, 0047600XXXXX

# International Mobile Number
- We aslo support international mobile numbers(outside of Norway) to send SMS as long as they are valid and provided with country code.
- Notificaiton to 5 digits number aren't supported. Therefore the mobile number must need to be more than 5 digits.
- Mobile numbers are validated against a list of country codes. You can see [the country codes here](https://github.com/google/libphonenumber/tree/master/resources/metadata).

<!---
{{% notice info %}}
TODO: say something about "varsel" vs "melding" or "beskjed". Kan brukes til begge deler. 
What is important to think about ? 
{{% /notice %}}
 
### Communication with private persons
[Kontakt- og reservasjonsregisteret](https://eid.difi.no/nb/kontakt-og-reservasjonsregisteret) 
(the common contact register) is used to retrieve contact information when an organisation sends a notification 
through Altinn to a private person without providing the contact details to use. 

In using this register both Altinn, and the sender of the notification,
must adhere to [eForvaltningsforskriften §29](https://lovdata.no/forskrift/2004-06-25-988/§29). 

We have summarized some of the information here, but encourage you to familiarize yourself with 
[Digitaliseringsdirektoratet's guidelines for using the register](https://samarbeid.digdir.no/kontaktregisteret/retningslinjer-bruk-av-kontakt-og-reservasjonsregisteret/143). 


Altinn Notifications should be used to support the execution of your organisations public authority. Meaning the use 
should be linked to your organisation's _social mission_ and not for
commercial purposes, marketing, or any other use that can be considered as private law.

Altinn Notifications should be used when the message communicated in the notification contains 
information that is important for the subject to receive and/or is important for the sending organisation 
that the recipient receives.

### Communication with persons as an entity of an organisation 

### What should a notification include
Varselet bør inneholde:
- beskrivelse av oppgaven,
- konkret hva den gjelder,
- hvem som er ansvarlig/kan løse oppgaven
- informer gjerne også om frist for oppgaven
-->
