content/app/getting-started/create-app/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Create app in Altinn Studio
linktitle: Create app
description: How to create a new application in Altinn Studio.
weight: 150
---

Altinn Studio is used to create applications (apps).
An app could be anything from a simple form to a more  complex application with APIs, user interfaces, and everything in between.

You create an app from the dashboard in Altinn Studio.

![Dashboard in Altinn Studio](overview.png "Dashboard - overview")

1. Click on "**Opprett ny applikasjon**"-button in the top right corner of the dashboard.
2. Select the **eier** of the app. If you don't have access to any organisations, you have to select your self and the app would be created in your "sandbox".
3. Add the **navn** of the app.
    This name is used to identify the application and will be used as the repository name, in URL's, and APIs.
    There are some rules related to naming of av application, in addiion to this, the name should be short and descriptive, for instance "sick-leave" or "local-election-2019".  
   
    _Name can **not** be changed after an app has been deployed._

    >  **Rules for naming an aplication**
    > - Name can only contain lower case alphanumeric characters and dash (-),
    > - Mane must begin with a letter
    > - Name mustend with a letter or a number
4. Click "**Opprett applikasjon**" to create the app.

![New app popup](new-app.png "Create new app")

Once the app is created, you will be forwarded to the created application.

![App created](app-created.png "App created")

Commit message:

Added tip to click logo if not taken to Studio dashboard, link to dashboard, and fixed typos. (#921)
Co-authored-by: Therese Stokkan <therese.stokkan@accenture.com>

content/app/getting-started/create-app/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Create app in Altinn Studio
linktitle: Create app
description: How to create a new application in Altinn Studio.
weight: 150
---

Altinn Studio is used to create applications (apps).
An app could be anything from a simple form to a more  complex application with APIs, user interfaces, and everything in between.

You create an app from the [dashboard](https://altinn.studio/dashboard) in Altinn Studio. If you don't see the dashboard, click the logo in the upper left corner.

![Dashboard in Altinn Studio](overview.png "Dashboard - overview")

1. Click on "**Opprett ny applikasjon**"-button in the top right corner of the dashboard.
2. Select the **eier** of the app. If you don't have access to any organisations, you have to select your self and the app would be created in your "sandbox".
3. Add the **navn** of the app.
    This name is used to identify the application and will be used as the repository name, in URL's, and APIs.
    There are some rules related to naming of av application, in addiion to this, the name should be short and descriptive, for instance "sick-leave" or "local-election-2019".  
   
    _Name can **not** be changed after an app has been deployed._

    >  **Rules for naming an application**
    > - Name can only contain lower case alphanumeric characters and dash (-),
    > - Mane must begin with a letter
    > - Name mustend with a letter or a number
4. Click "**Opprett applikasjon**" to create the app.

![New app popup](new-app.png "Create new app")

Once the app is created, you will be forwarded to the created application.

![App created](app-created.png "App created")
