content/app/getting-started/create-user/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Create user in Altinn Studio
linktitle: Create user
description: Configure your user in Altinn Studio for the first time.
toc: true
weight: 100
---

## Create a user in Altinn Studio

Your Altinn Studio user is personal to you and can be linked to one or more organizations to collaborate with others and access existing applications.

{{% expandlarge id="lag-bruker-med-github-brukernavn" header="Create user with GitHub" %}}

1. Go to [altinn.studio](https://altinn.studio) and click "Logg inn".
   ![Welcome](velkommen.png "Welcome")
2. Choose to log in with GitHub.
   ![Login](login-as.png "Log inn")
3. Provide your GitHub credentials if prompted.
   ![GitHub login](github-login.png "GitHub login")
4. Authorize Altinn Studio to use your GitHub account to log in.
   ![Authorize Github](authorize-altinn.png "Authorize GitHub")
5. Create an Altinn Studio user by filling in username, email, password, a captcha and click "Fullfør".
   The user in Altinn Studio will be connected to your GitHub user and you are ready to start working on your first application.
   ![Register user in Altinn Studio](register-gitea.png "Register user in Altinn Studio")

{{% /expandlarge %}}

{{% expandlarge id="lag-en-bruker-med-epostadresse-uten-github" header="Create user with email address" %}}

1. Go to [altinn.studio](https://altinn.studio) and click "Opprett ny bruker".
   ![Welcome](velkommen.png "Welcome")
2. Create an Altinn Studio user by filling in username, email, password, and click "Fullfør". You are now ready to start working on your first application.
   ![Register user in Altinn Studio](register-gitea.png "Register user in Altinn Studio")

{{% /expandlarge %}}

## Join an organization

Organizations in Altinn Studio are the same as service owners in Altinn.
They own the applications and enable collaboration between people within the organization.

To join an organization, an administrator must grant you access.
If you're uncertain about the administrator or if your organization is available in Altinn Studio, you can seek assistance from the Altinn Servicedesk (mailto:tjenesteeier@altinn.no).

## Create an organization

To create an organization, email [Altinn Servicedesk](mailto:tjenesteeier@altinn.no) with the organization's name and who will be the administrator.
Creating the organization may require a few days, and we will notify you via email when it's ready.

Commit message:

Allow Studio orgs for service development firms (#1139)
* Allow Studio orgs for service development firms

* fixed bullet-point after review

content/app/getting-started/create-user/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Create user in Altinn Studio
linktitle: Create user
description: Configure your user in Altinn Studio for the first time.
toc: true
weight: 100
---

## Create a user in Altinn Studio

Your Altinn Studio user is personal to you and can be linked to one or more organizations to collaborate with others and access existing applications.

{{% expandlarge id="lag-bruker-med-github-brukernavn" header="Create user with GitHub" %}}

1. Go to [altinn.studio](https://altinn.studio) and click "Logg inn".
   ![Welcome](velkommen.png "Welcome")
2. Choose to log in with GitHub.
   ![Login](login-as.png "Log inn")
3. Provide your GitHub credentials if prompted.
   ![GitHub login](github-login.png "GitHub login")
4. Authorize Altinn Studio to use your GitHub account to log in.
   ![Authorize Github](authorize-altinn.png "Authorize GitHub")
5. Create an Altinn Studio user by filling in username, email, password, a captcha and click "Fullfør".
   The user in Altinn Studio will be connected to your GitHub user and you are ready to start working on your first application.
   ![Register user in Altinn Studio](register-gitea.png "Register user in Altinn Studio")

{{% /expandlarge %}}

{{% expandlarge id="lag-en-bruker-med-epostadresse-uten-github" header="Create user with email address" %}}

1. Go to [altinn.studio](https://altinn.studio) and click "Opprett ny bruker".
   ![Welcome](velkommen.png "Welcome")
2. Create an Altinn Studio user by filling in username, email, password, and click "Fullfør". You are now ready to start working on your first application.
   ![Register user in Altinn Studio](register-gitea.png "Register user in Altinn Studio")

{{% /expandlarge %}}

## Join an organization

Organizations in Altinn Studio own the applications and enable collaboration between people within the organization.

To join an organization, an administrator must grant you access.
If you're uncertain about the administrator or if your organization is available in Altinn Studio,
you can seek assistance from the Altinn Servicedesk (mailto:tjenesteeier@altinn.no).

## Create an organization

Digdir creates the organizations in Altinn Studio.

To get an organization in Altinn Studio, your organization must

- be a service owner and have an agreement with Altinn, or
- offer service development in Altinn Studio on behalf of organizations in public sector

Organizations that are not service owners will not get access to their own test or production environment.

To create an organization, email [Altinn Servicedesk](mailto:tjenesteeier@altinn.no) with the organization's name and who will be the administrator.
Creating the organization may require a few days, and we will notify you via email when it's ready.
