content/notifications/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Notifications
description: Description of the notifications capabilities in Altinn 3.
toc: true
weight: 20
aliases:
  - /altinn-notifications/
---

{{% notice warning  %}}
This section of the documentation is a work in progress.
There are sub sections with missing and/or only partial documentation.
{{% /notice %}}

## Main benefits

Reasons to consider using Altinn Notifications for communication with Norwegian citizens or businesses

1. Contact information in national registries can be retrieved at send time based on
   organization number or person identification number.
2. Altinn roles can be used to identify the correct recipients within an organization.
3. Notifications can have send conditions related to the state of, or actions performed on, an Altinn App instance
4. A seamless integration for notifications in an Altinn App workflow.

## Terminology

- #### Notification order

  A _notification order_ is the request to send  one or multiple notifications to one or multiple recipients.
  A single order can result in the creation of one or multiple notifications.

  Here is an example of a standard notification order:

    ```json
    {
      "id": "a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8",
      "creator": "ttd",
      "sendersReference": "test-2023-1",
      "requestedSendTime": "2024-01-02T13:49:31.5591909Z",
      "created": "2024-01-02T13:49:31.5799658Z",
      "notificationChannel": "Email",
      "recipients": [
        {
          "emailAddress": "testuser_1@altinn.no"
        },
        {
          "nationalIdentityNumber":"11876995923"
        }
      ],
      "emailTemplate": {
        "fromAddress": "noreply@altinn.cloud",
        "subject": "A test email from Altinn Notifications",
        "body": "A message sent from an application owner through Altinn.",
        "contentType": "Html"
      },
      "links": {
        "self": "https://platform.at22.altinn.cloud/notifications/api/v1/orders/a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8",
        "status": "https://platform.at22.altinn.cloud/notifications/api/v1/orders/a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8/status"
      }
    }
    ```

- #### Notification

  A _notification_ is the single instance of an email or SMS that is sent to a single recipient.

  Here is an example of a set of notifications related to an order:

    ```json
    {
        "orderId": "a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8",
        "sendersReference": "test-2023-1",
        "generated": 2,
        "succeeded": 1,
        "notifications": [
            {
                "id": "a141753c-557f-4bce-95fd-8fc715ca9a40",
                "succeeded": true,
                "recipient":
                {
                    "emailAddress": "testuser_1@altinn.no"
                },
                "sendStatus": {
                    "status": "Succeeded",
                    "description": "The email has been accepted by the third party email service and will be sent shortly.",
                    "lastUpdate": "2024-01-02T13:51:12.706808Z"
                }
            }
               {
                "id": "a9d159e2-6a89-4440-80da-7f2a99c775f4",
                "succeeded": true,
                "recipient":
                {
                    "nationalIdentityNumber":"11876995923",
                    "emailAddress": "testuser_2@altinn.no",
                    "isReserved": false
                },
                "sendStatus": {
                    "status": "Sending",
                    "description": "The email is being processed and will be attempted sent shortly." ,
                    "lastUpdate": "2024-01-02T13:51:12.706808Z"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

- #### Notification channel

  A _notification channel_ is the communication pathways through which Altinn enables you to
  communicate with your end users.

## Notification channels

Currently, we support sending notifications through two channels:

- email
- sms

#### Future improvements

In the future, we plan to extend our notification channel options to provide even more flexibility and convenience.
Our goal is to support a wider range of communication platforms. This expansion will allow both  your organization
and the end users to communicate through the channels that best suit the end users preferences and communication habits.

Stay tuned for updates as we continue to enhance our notification capabilities to better serve your needs.

If you have any questions or feedback regarding notification channels,
please don't hesitate to [reach out to us through GitHub](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/issues/new?assignees=&labels=kind%2Fquestion%2Cstatus%2Ftriage&projects=&template=question.yml).

## Who can use Altinn Notifications

Altinn Notifications allows the following parties to send messages,
provided they have obtained authorization through Maskinporten:

- Registered service owners
- Altinn Apps
- Internal Altinn services


## Guidelines for usage


[Please reference our user guide on how and when to use Altinn Notifications](send-notifications/get-started/user-guide/)

Commit message:

User docs on send condition (#1714)
* current progress

* completed reference doc

* more generic send condition benefit

* Update content/notifications/_index.en.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Thomas Bakken <70642698+tba76@users.noreply.github.com>

content/notifications/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Notifications
description: Description of the notifications capabilities in Altinn 3.
toc: true
weight: 20
aliases:
  - /altinn-notifications/
---

{{% notice warning  %}}
This section of the documentation is a work in progress.
There are sub sections with missing and/or only partial documentation.
{{% /notice %}}

## Main benefits

Reasons to consider using Altinn Notifications for communication with Norwegian citizens or businesses

1. Contact information in national registries can be retrieved at send time based on
   organization number or person identification number.
2. Altinn roles can be used to identify the correct recipients within an organization.
3. Notifications can have send conditions related to the state of, or actions performed on, external resources including Altinn App instances
4. A seamless integration for notifications in an Altinn App workflow.

## Terminology

- #### Notification order

  A _notification order_ is the request to send  one or multiple notifications to one or multiple recipients.
  A single order can result in the creation of one or multiple notifications.

  Here is an example of a standard notification order:

    ```json
    {
      "id": "a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8",
      "creator": "ttd",
      "sendersReference": "test-2023-1",
      "requestedSendTime": "2024-01-02T13:49:31.5591909Z",
      "created": "2024-01-02T13:49:31.5799658Z",
      "notificationChannel": "Email",
      "recipients": [
        {
          "emailAddress": "testuser_1@altinn.no"
        },
        {
          "nationalIdentityNumber":"11876995923"
        }
      ],
      "emailTemplate": {
        "fromAddress": "noreply@altinn.cloud",
        "subject": "A test email from Altinn Notifications",
        "body": "A message sent from an application owner through Altinn.",
        "contentType": "Html"
      },
      "links": {
        "self": "https://platform.at22.altinn.cloud/notifications/api/v1/orders/a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8",
        "status": "https://platform.at22.altinn.cloud/notifications/api/v1/orders/a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8/status"
      }
    }
    ```

- #### Notification

  A _notification_ is the single instance of an email or SMS that is sent to a single recipient.

  Here is an example of a set of notifications related to an order:

    ```json
    {
        "orderId": "a56c0933-d609-4b5c-a5da-bccfd407c9b8",
        "sendersReference": "test-2023-1",
        "generated": 2,
        "succeeded": 1,
        "notifications": [
            {
                "id": "a141753c-557f-4bce-95fd-8fc715ca9a40",
                "succeeded": true,
                "recipient":
                {
                    "emailAddress": "testuser_1@altinn.no"
                },
                "sendStatus": {
                    "status": "Succeeded",
                    "description": "The email has been accepted by the third party email service and will be sent shortly.",
                    "lastUpdate": "2024-01-02T13:51:12.706808Z"
                }
            }
               {
                "id": "a9d159e2-6a89-4440-80da-7f2a99c775f4",
                "succeeded": true,
                "recipient":
                {
                    "nationalIdentityNumber":"11876995923",
                    "emailAddress": "testuser_2@altinn.no",
                    "isReserved": false
                },
                "sendStatus": {
                    "status": "Sending",
                    "description": "The email is being processed and will be attempted sent shortly." ,
                    "lastUpdate": "2024-01-02T13:51:12.706808Z"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

- #### Notification channel

  A _notification channel_ is the communication pathways through which Altinn enables you to
  communicate with your end users.

- #### Send condition

  A send condition can be evaluated as true or false i.e. true if the condition for sending the notification is met. 
  The send condition is checked by the application using the condition endpoint provided in the notification order. 

## Notification channels

Currently, we support sending notifications through two channels:

- email
- sms

#### Future improvements

In the future, we plan to extend our notification channel options to provide even more flexibility and convenience.
Our goal is to support a wider range of communication platforms. This expansion will allow both  your organization
and the end users to communicate through the channels that best suit the end users preferences and communication habits.

Stay tuned for updates as we continue to enhance our notification capabilities to better serve your needs.

If you have any questions or feedback regarding notification channels,
please don't hesitate to [reach out to us through GitHub](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/issues/new?assignees=&labels=kind%2Fquestion%2Cstatus%2Ftriage&projects=&template=question.yml).

## Who can use Altinn Notifications

Altinn Notifications allows the following parties to send messages,
provided they have obtained authorization through Maskinporten:

- Registered service owners
- Altinn Apps
- Internal Altinn services


## Guidelines for usage


[Please reference our user guide on how and when to use Altinn Notifications](send-notifications/get-started/user-guide/)
