content/notifications/about/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: About Notifications
description: High-level description of Altinn Notifications
aliases:
- /altinn-notifications/
weight: 10
---

Altinn Notifications is a service that enables efficient communication with end users through various channels. We offer:

- A robust API for sending notifications via email and SMS.
- Integration with Altinn's existing services to ensure seamless communication.
- Lookup of contact details in national registries using national identification numbers or organization numbers, ensuring that current information is used.

## Capabilities

**Email Notifications**: Send informational and formatted emails to users.

**SMS Notifications**: Send concise and timely messages to users' mobile phones.

**Contact Details Lookup**: Retrieve updated contact details from national registries.

## How It Works
Integrate your internal services and Altinn applications with Altinn Notifications 
to enable notifications based on specific events or conditions. 

### API Access
Developers can use the Altinn Notifications API to send notifications and track delivery status programmatically.


### Integration with Altinn Services
Altinn Notifications uses:
- **Register**: Retrieves contact details for businesses.
- **Profile**: Retrieves contact details for end users.
- **Resource Registry**: Identifies authorized recipients within an organization.
- **Authorization**: Ensures secure and compliant communication.

### Communication Providers
Altinn Notifications utilizes the following providers:

- **Email**: Azure Communication Services.
- **SMS**: LinkMobility.

## Eligible Users
The following parties can send messages via Altinn Notifications, provided they have authorization through Maskinporten:

- Registered service owners
- Altinn Apps
- Internal Altinn services

## Core Principles

- **Reliability**: Ensures notifications are delivered promptly and accurately.
- **Flexibility**: Supports various notification channels and custom templates.
- **Integration**: Works seamlessly with other Altinn services.
- **Security**: Ensures secure communications in compliance with relevant regulations.

## Open Source and Collaboration

Altinn Notifications is an open-source project, welcoming community contributions.

Join our community on GitHub to contribute to the development of Altinn Notifications. Your feedback and contributions help create a robust and reliable notification service.

For more information, please refer to our [user guide](/notifications/guides/).

Commit message:

Update the Notification documentation to introduce the placeholder keywords. (#1951)
* #545 Mention customizability in the introduction

* Improve the features explanation

* Duplicate the same features explanation for NO

* Improve the Altinn App Integration section

* Improve the Service Owner System Integration

* Improve the Terminology page

* Improve a text

* Explain the new keywords and fix typos.

* Update the SMS documentation and fix typos

* Fix mismatch in text

* Improve the send notification documentation

* Improve a sentence

* Improve the order cancelling documentation

* Improve a phrase

* Improve the email retrieval documentation

* Extend the documentation

* Improve the documentation

* Improve a sentence and an example

* Improve order status documentation

* Update get SMS notifications document

* Improve two phrases.

* Update a text

* Remove a line

* Use SMS instead of sms

* Use SMS instead of sms

* Replace sms with SMS

* Enhance address lookup documentation

* Improve the Recipient lookup documentation

* Improve the SendCondition documentation

* Highlight parts of the example

* Highlight parts of code

* Update a GUID

* Make a sentence clearer

* Apply suggestions

* Apply suggestions

* Remove an line break

content/notifications/about/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: About Notifications
description: High-level description of Altinn Notifications
aliases:
- /altinn-notifications/
weight: 10
---

**Altinn Notifications** is a service designed to facilitate efficient communication with end users through various channels. Key features include:

- A robust API for sending notifications via email and SMS.
- Seamless integration with Altinn's services to streamline communication workflows.
- Real-time lookup of names and contact details from national registries using national identification numbers or organization numbers, ensuring using up-to-date information.

## Capabilities

**Email Notifications**: Send customized, formatted and informative emails directly to users.

**SMS Notifications**: Send customized, concise and timely messages to users’ mobile devices.

**Name Lookup**: Retrieve current names from national registries.

**Contact Details Lookup**: Retrieve updated contact information from national registries.

## How It Works
Altinn Notifications enables integration with internal services and Altinn applications to send notifications triggered by specific events or conditions.

### API Access

Developers can use the Altinn Notifications API to send notifications programmatically and track their delivery status.

### Integration with Altinn Services

Altinn Notifications leverages the following Altinn services:

- **Register**: Retrieves names and contact details for businesses.
- **Profile**: Retrieves names and contact details for individual users.
- **Resource Registry**: Identifies authorized recipients within an organization.
- **Authorization**: Ensures secure and compliant communication.

### Communication Providers

Altinn Notifications uses these providers to send messages:

- **Email**: Azure Communication Services.  
- **SMS**: LinkMobility.

## Eligible Users

The following entities can send messages via Altinn Notifications, provided they are authorized through Maskinporten:

- Registered service owners  
- Altinn Apps  
- Internal Altinn services  

## Core Principles

- **Reliability**: Ensures notifications are delivered promptly and accurately.  
- **Flexibility**: Supports multiple notification channels and customizable templates.  
- **Integration**: Works seamlessly with other Altinn services.  
- **Security**: Guarantees secure communication in compliance with regulations.

## Open Source and Collaboration

Altinn Notifications is an open-source project that welcomes community contributions.

Join our community on GitHub to participate in the development of Altinn Notifications. Your feedback and contributions are invaluable for building a robust and reliable notification service.

For additional details, please refer to our [user guide](/notifications/guides/).
