content/app/guides/design/prototype/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Prototype
description: By using Altinn's Prototype-kit you can create a clickable prototype where you can design the flow and content for your service.
weight: 3
---

![Prototyping in Figma](FigmaTeaser3.gif "Prototyping in Figma")

The Altinn prototype-kit is a collection of presets and components that you can use to create a prototype of your app within Figma. 

**With Altinn's Prototype-Kit for Figma you can:**

- See what Altinn-forms look like and how they are experienced by the user
- Familiarize yourself with design elements in Altinn 3
- Define flow and content within your form
- Create clickable sketch that can be user tested
- Use the prototype as a guide/reference while the app is in development

## Get started with Figma
Having a designer that already has experience in Figma or a similar tool would be an advantage. 
If you don't have access to such a resource, 
we recommend going through an [introductory course before you start](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXDU_eVOJTx7QHLShNqIXL1Cgbxj7HlN4).

1. Create a user on [https://www.figma.com/](https://www.figma.com/). Figma can be installed locally or be used from your browser.
2. Open the Altinn prototype-kit and follow the steps as described in the introduction on the first page if the file:

{{% highlighted-link src="https://www.figma.com/file/wnBveAG2ikUspFsQwM3GNE/Prototyping-av-skjematjenester?node-id=47%3A4068" link="Altinn Prototype-kit" %}}

When the designer/professional has designed and user tested the form, 
it can be used as a specification for what the developers should create in Altinn Studio. 

{{% panel %}}
**NOTE:** If you are creating services for your own solution, where Altinn is invisible for the user, you should rather use 
your agency's own design system to prototype your service.
{{% /panel %}}

Commit message:

Update _index.en.md (#1420)
new link to the Altinn Studio Komponenter Figma community file, and updated to the text

content/app/guides/design/prototype/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Prototype
description: By using the Figma Community file Altinn Studio Komponenter you can create a clickable prototype where you can design the flow and content for your service.
weight: 3
---

![Prototyping in Figma](FigmaTeaser3.gif "Prototyping in Figma")

The Altinn Studio Komponenter is a collection of examples and components that you can use to create a prototype of your app within Figma. 

**With Altinn Studio Komponenter from Figma community you can:**

- See what Altinn-forms look like and how they are experienced by the user
- Familiarize yourself with design elements in Altinn 3
- Define flow and content within your form
- Create clickable sketch that can be user tested
- Use the prototype as a guide/reference while the app is in development

## Get started with Figma
Having a designer that already has experience in Figma or a similar tool would be an advantage. 
If you don't have access to such a resource, 
we recommend going through an [introductory course before you start](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLXDU_eVOJTx7QHLShNqIXL1Cgbxj7HlN4).

1. Create a user on [https://www.figma.com/](https://www.figma.com/). Figma can be installed locally or be used from your browser.
2. Open the Altinn prototype-kit and follow the steps as described in the introduction on the first page if the file:

{{% highlighted-link src="https://www.figma.com/community/file/1278649851387178020/altinn-studio-komponenter" %}}

When the designer/professional has designed and user tested the form, 
it can be used as a specification for what the developers should create in Altinn Studio. 

{{% panel %}}
**NOTE:** If you are creating services for your own solution, where Altinn is invisible for the user, you should rather use 
your agency's own design system to prototype your service.
{{% /panel %}}
