content/notifications/send-notifications/developer-guides/get-notification-order-by-id/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Get order details
linktitle: Get order details
description: Endpoint for retrieving the details of a notification order including templates and recipients.
weight: 51
toc: true
---

## Endpoint

GET /order/{id}

{id} represents the id of the notification order to retrieve details for.

## Authentication

This API requires authentication and the request must also include one of the following: 
- Maskinporten scope __altinn:serviceowner/notifications.create__ (for external system callers) 
- Platform Access Token (for Altinn Apps and internal Altinn systems)

See [Authentication and Authorization](../../../api/#authentication--authorization) for more information.

## Response

### Response codes
- 200 OK: The notification order was successfully retrieved.
- 404 Not Found: No order matching the provided id were found. Refer to problem details in response body for further information.
- 401 Unauthorized: Indicates a missing, invalid or expired authorization header.
- 403 Forbidden: Indicates that required scope or Platform Access Token is missing or invalid.

### Content-Type
- application/json

### Response body 
The response body is formatted as an 
[NotificationOrderExt.cs](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/NotificationOrderExt.cs)
and serialized as a JSON string.

Find a short description of each property below.

#### id
Type: _Guid_

The id of the notification order.

#### creator
Type: _string_

The short name of the creator of the notification order.

#### sendersReference
Type: _string_

The senders reference the creator provided in the notification order request.

#### requestedSendTime
Type: _DateTime_

The date and time for when the notification generated by the order should be sent.

#### created
Type: _DateTime_

The date and time for when the notification order request was registered.

#### notificationChannel
Type: enum [_NotificationChannelExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/NotificationChannelExt.cs)

The notification channel used for the notifications sent can be _Email_ or _Sms_.

#### recipients
Type: List<[_RecipientExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/RecipientExt.cs)>

A list of all provided recipients.

#### emailTemplate
Type: [_EmailTemplateExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/EmailTemplateExt.cs)

All the email template values used to generate notifications.

#### smsTemplate
Type: [_SmsTemplateExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/SmsTemplateExt.cs)

All the sms template values used to generate notifications.

#### links
Type: [_OrderResourceLinksExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/OrderResourceLinksExt.cs#L11)

An object containing a set of self links for the notification order.

## Examples

### Request
{{% notice info %}}
In the example we have included place holders for both the Platform Access and Altinn token.

__You only need one of them__, reference [Authentication](#authentication) for which one applies to your use case.
{{% /notice %}}


```bash
curl --location 'https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/f1a1cc30-197f-4f34-8304-006ce4945fd1' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'PlatformAccessToken: [INSERT PLATFORM ACCESS TOKEN]' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer [INSERT ALTINN TOKEN]' 
```

### Response

#### 200 OK
Response body contains the notification order with notification template.

_Example: Email notification order with notification template._

```json
{
    "id": "ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
    "creator": "ttd",
    "sendersReference": "demo-2023-01",
    "requestedSendTime": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8367317Z",
    "created": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8450294Z",
    "notificationChannel": "Email",
    "recipients": [
        {
            "emailAddress": "testuser_1@altinn.no"
        }
    ],
    "emailTemplate": {
        "fromAddress": "noreply@altinn.no",
        "subject": "A test email from Altinn Notifications",
        "body": "A message sent from an application owner through Altinn.",
        "contentType": "Plain"
    },
    "links": {
        "self": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
        "status": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b/status"
    }
}
```

_Example: Sms notification order with notification template._

```json
{
    "id": "ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
    "creator": "ttd",
    "sendersReference": "demo-2023-01",
    "requestedSendTime": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8367317Z",
    "created": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8450294Z",
    "notificationChannel": "Sms",
    "recipients": [
        {
            "mobileNumber": "+4799999999"
        }
    ],
    "smsTemplate": {
        "senderNumber": "Altinn",
        "body": "A text message sent by a service owner through Altinn."
    },
    "links": {
        "self": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
        "status": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b/status"
    }
}
```

#### 404 Not Found
An empty response is returned with the 404 status code.

Commit message:

Updated notifications docs (#1664)
* current progress

* fixed data integrity details

* fixed broken links

* fixed pr comments

* fixed category names

content/notifications/send-notifications/developer-guides/get-notification-order-by-id/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Get order details
linktitle: Get order details
description: Endpoint for retrieving the details of a notification order including templates and recipients.
weight: 51
toc: true
---

## Endpoint

GET /order/{id}

{id} represents the ID of the notification order to retrieve details for.

## Authentication

This API requires authentication and the request must also include one of the following: 
- Maskinporten scope __altinn:serviceowner/notifications.create__ (for external system callers) 
- Platform Access Token (for Altinn Apps and internal Altinn systems)

See [Authentication and Authorization](../../../api/#authentication--authorization) for more information.

## Response

### Response codes
- 200 OK: The notification order was successfully retrieved.
- 404 Not Found: No order matching the provided ID were found. Refer to problem details in response body for further information.
- 401 Unauthorized: Indicates a missing, invalid or expired authorization header.
- 403 Forbidden: Indicates that required scope or Platform Access Token is missing or invalid.

### Content-Type
- application/json

### Response body 
The response body is formatted as an 
[NotificationOrderExt.cs](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/NotificationOrderExt.cs)
and serialized as a JSON string.

Find a short description of each property below.

#### id
Type: _Guid_

The ID of the notification order.

#### creator
Type: _string_

The short name of the creator of the notification order.

#### sendersReference
Type: _string_

The senders reference the creator provided in the notification order request.

#### requestedSendTime
Type: _DateTime_

The date and time for when the notification generated by the order should be sent.

#### created
Type: _DateTime_

The date and time for when the notification order request was registered.

#### notificationChannel
Type: enum [_NotificationChannelExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/NotificationChannelExt.cs)

The notification channel used for the notifications sent can be _Email_ or _Sms_.

#### ignoreReservation
Type: _boolean_

Whether an individuals KRR reservation status should be ignored.

#### resourceId
Type: _string_

The ID of the Altinn resource the notifications should be related to as the ID appears in the Altinn Resource Registry. 

#### recipients
Type: List<[_RecipientExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/RecipientExt.cs)>

A list of all provided recipients.

#### emailTemplate
Type: [_EmailTemplateExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/EmailTemplateExt.cs)

All the email template values used to generate notifications.

#### smsTemplate
Type: [_SmsTemplateExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/SmsTemplateExt.cs)

All the sms template values used to generate notifications.

#### links
Type: [_OrderResourceLinksExt_](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-notifications/blob/main/src/Altinn.Notifications/Models/OrderResourceLinksExt.cs#L11)

An object containing a set of self links for the notification order.

## Examples

### Request
{{% notice info %}}
In the example we have included place holders for both the Platform Access and Altinn token.

__You only need one of them__, reference [Authentication](#authentication) for which one applies to your use case.
{{% /notice %}}


```bash
curl --location 'https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/f1a1cc30-197f-4f34-8304-006ce4945fd1' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'PlatformAccessToken: [INSERT PLATFORM ACCESS TOKEN]' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer [INSERT ALTINN TOKEN]' 
```

### Response

#### 200 OK
Response body contains the notification order with notification template.

_Example: Email notification order with notification template._

```json
{
    "id": "ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
    "creator": "ttd",
    "sendersReference": "demo-2023-01",
    "requestedSendTime": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8367317Z",
    "created": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8450294Z",
    "notificationChannel": "Email",
    "recipients": [
        {
            "emailAddress": "testuser_1@altinn.no"
        }
    ],
    "emailTemplate": {
        "fromAddress": "noreply@altinn.no",
        "subject": "A test email from Altinn Notifications",
        "body": "A message sent from an application owner through Altinn.",
        "contentType": "Plain"
    },
    "links": {
        "self": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
        "status": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b/status"
    }
}
```

_Example: Sms notification order with notification template._

```json
{
    "id": "ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
    "creator": "ttd",
    "sendersReference": "demo-2023-01",
    "requestedSendTime": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8367317Z",
    "created": "2023-12-12T14:13:27.8450294Z",
    "notificationChannel": "Sms",
    "recipients": [
        {
            "mobileNumber": "+4799999999"
        }
    ],
    "smsTemplate": {
        "senderNumber": "Altinn",
        "body": "A text message sent by a service owner through Altinn."
    },
    "links": {
        "self": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b",
        "status": "https://platform.altinn.no/notifications/api/v1/orders/ca964629-fba5-48e6-80b3-d75502c08f5b/status"
    }
}
```

#### 404 Not Found
An empty response is returned with the 404 status code.
