content/app/development/logic/generic/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Generic
description: Overview of logic files and how they can be used.
toc: true
weight: 10
---

## Introduction

The various files that are used to define logic on the frontend can be found in the logic menu
that is available in the UI editor through the _f(x)_-icon at the top right corner.

![Logic menu](ui-editor-logic-menu.png?height=300px "Logic menu")

For backend the logic is done by implementing various interfaces. These are described in separate chapters for example in [data processing](../dataprocessing/). 
A complete project with examples on server-side application logic can be found [in our training course application](https://altinn.studio/repos/ttd/tilflytter-sogndal-lf/src/branch/master).

{{%panel info%}}
**NOTE:** The way you reference elements in the data model is different between OR and SERES type XSD's.
For OR XSD's, `.value` is a necessary suffix in the reference. The example code beow uses a mixture of the two types of data models.
{{% /panel%}}


## Auto-complete/intellisense

By editing the source code in the apps locally, e.g. in Visual Studio Code, you get intellisense and autocomplete automatically.
For the C#-files, it's easiest working on these locally.

For the javascript-files, intellisense/autocomplete is also available if you wish to edit the files directly in Altinn Studio.
This appears automatically when writing, and you can also force it to appear by pressing `CTRL + SPACE`

![Logic menu - auto-complete/intellisense](datamodel-intellisense.gif "Logic menu - auto-complete/intellisense")

Commit message:

Dynamic expressions (#749)
* Adding an early draft of the expressions documentation

* Fixing broken anchors

* Adding note about opt-in feature

* Removing line no longer in app-template-dotnet

* More about types

* Fixing one more broken anchor

* More updates

* Fixing the expandlarge shortcode so the id behaves as an anchor we can link to

* Anchor fixes

* Resolved all TODOs!

* Automatically expanding `expandlarge` sections when clicking on links pointing to them

* Adding note about looking up arrays and objects

* Slight phrasing change

* Updating/adding deprecation warnings

* Updating modul2 in the intro course to use tracks via expressions. Slightly changing the requirements by removing the one requirement that is not supported with expressions-based tracks. IMHO this shouldn't be a requirement at all, as we shouldn't encourage creating user traps.

* Adding note about automatic page navigation (recently fixed bug)

* Copying over the norwegian docs to the english one (I don't want to prioritize translating the docs quite yet, as I suspect we might want to make massive changes to it soon).

* Fixing anchors on the english page. Even though this page hasn't been translated yet, the anchors should still point the right places.

* Fixing yet another broken anchor

Co-authored-by: Ole Martin Handeland <git@olemartin.org>

content/app/development/logic/generic/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Generic
description: Overview of logic files and how they can be used.
toc: true
weight: 10
---

## Introduction

The various files that are used to define logic on the frontend can be found in the logic menu
that is available in the UI editor through the _f(x)_-icon at the top right corner.

{{% panel theme="warning" %}}
⚠️ Dynamics/logic are under active development. These rules will in the future be replaced by
[dynamic expressions](../expressions). Currently only show/hide dynamics are supported using expressions, but
calculation and validation will be supported in the future.
{{% /panel %}}

![Logic menu](ui-editor-logic-menu.png?height=300px "Logic menu")

For backend the logic is done by implementing various interfaces. These are described in separate chapters for example in [data processing](../dataprocessing/). 
A complete project with examples on server-side application logic can be found [in our training course application](https://altinn.studio/repos/ttd/tilflytter-sogndal-lf/src/branch/master).

{{%panel info%}}
**NOTE:** The way you reference elements in the data model is different between OR and SERES type XSD's.
For OR XSD's, `.value` is a necessary suffix in the reference. The example code beow uses a mixture of the two types of data models.
{{% /panel%}}


## Auto-complete/intellisense

By editing the source code in the apps locally, e.g. in Visual Studio Code, you get intellisense and autocomplete automatically.
For the C#-files, it's easiest working on these locally.

For the javascript-files, intellisense/autocomplete is also available if you wish to edit the files directly in Altinn Studio.
This appears automatically when writing, and you can also force it to appear by pressing `CTRL + SPACE`

![Logic menu - auto-complete/intellisense](datamodel-intellisense.gif "Logic menu - auto-complete/intellisense")
