content/api/apps/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: App API
linktitle: App
description: The default APIs exposed by apps in Altinn 3
toc: false
tags: [api]
aliases:
- /teknologi/altinnstudio/altinn-api/app-api/
---

## Overview

The features documented here are the default features of any app created based on the app template in Altinn Studio. Application owners are free to make changes to this, but it is probably safe to say that removal of features will be extremely rare. Any app with changes to its API should have its own documentation published by the application owner.

All app API endpoints have the same URL base path that will vary based on application owner and application name.

**Test environment (TT02)**
```http
https://{org}.apps.tt02.altinn.no/{org}/{appname}
```

**Production**
```http
https://{org}.apps.altinn.no/{org}/{appname}
```

The URL identifies the application owner specific hostname using the short name (**org**), and the identifier of the app consisting of both the application owner short name and the name of the app (**org/appname**). 

{{<children />}}

Commit message:

Explicitly name `{basePath}` on the index pages
This is an attempt to remove confusion while browsing, and hopefully get
hits if you search.

content/api/apps/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: App API
linktitle: App
description: The default APIs exposed by apps in Altinn 3
toc: false
tags: [api]
aliases:
- /teknologi/altinnstudio/altinn-api/app-api/
---

## Overview

The features documented here are the default features of any app created based on the app template in Altinn Studio. Application owners are free to make changes to this, but it is probably safe to say that removal of features will be extremely rare. Any app with changes to its API should have its own documentation published by the application owner.

All app API endpoints have the same URL base path that will vary based on application owner and application name. This is called `{basePath}` throughout the documentation.

**Test environment (TT02)**
```http
https://{org}.apps.tt02.altinn.no/{org}/{appname}
```

**Production**
```http
https://{org}.apps.altinn.no/{org}/{appname}
```

The URL identifies the application owner specific hostname using the short name (**org**), and the identifier of the app consisting of both the application owner short name and the name of the app (**org/appname**). 

{{<children />}}
