content/correspondence/what-do-you-get/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: What do you get?
linktitle: What do you get?
description: Main features of Altinn Correspondence 
tags: []
toc: true
weight: 20
---

## Main Features

### Creation and Sending of Messages
- Ability for public agencies and other service providers to create and send messages to users.
  - Languages supported: Norwegian bokmål (nb), Norwegian nynorsk (nn) and English (en)
- Support for both general and personalized messages.

### Notifications
- Automatic notifications via email or SMS to users when they receive new messages.
- Customized notification settings based on user preferences.

### Archiving and Storage
- All messages are stored in the user's inbox in Altinn.
- Retention policies that ensure messages are available as long as necessary according to legislation and guidelines.

### Access Control and Security
- Advanced access control ensuring that only authorized users can read the messages.
- Use of security mechanisms like encryption to protect the content.

### Search and Filtering Functions
- User-friendly search and filtering functions to quickly find specific messages.
- Ability to sort messages by various criteria such as date, sender, and message type.

### Integrations and APIs
- APIs allowing integration with other systems for sending and receiving messages.
- Possibility for automated message handling through integrated systems.

### Receipts and Confirmations
- The system provides receipts when a message is delivered and opened by the recipient.
- Ability to send confirmations back to the sender that the message has been read.

### User Administration
- Tools for managing user profiles and access.
- Functionality to assign messages to the correct user or unit within an organization.

### Support for Various Message Formats
- Ability to send messages in Markdown or clean text.
- Support for several attachments per correspondence, without limitation of type. PDF, XML and HTML will usually be the most common used.

### Reporting and Statistics
- Tools to generate reports and statistics over sent and received messages.
- Overview of message flows and usage data.

### Advanced Support for Linking to Content and Attachments

- As an alternative to sending message content and attachments directly in the messages,
  the sender can choose to send links to content and attachments.
- Altinn Melding has functionality for uploading files with message content and attachments,
  for secure storage and reuse across multiple messages.
- It is also possible to link to content and attachments stored elsewhere,
  e.g., on-premises at the sender or in the sender's preferred cloud solution.


### Integration with Dialogporten and Arbeidsflate

- Unified user interface across multiple messaging solutions through Altinn 3 Arbeidsflate.
- Activity log in Altinn 3 Dialogporten.

## Summary of advantages of Altinn Correspondence

Altinn Correspondence offers several unique benefits that make it the preferred choice for digital communication with public agencies in Norway:

* Centralized communication: Altinn Correspondence serves as a central hub where all communications with public authorities can be managed from one account. This eliminates the need to manage multiple accounts or platforms.
* Security and confidentiality: Regular email is often not considered secure enough in many contexts. Altinn Correspondence can be used for transferring sensitive information. The platform uses strong authentication and encryption techniques to protect user data.
* Automation of submissions: The system allows for the automation of submissions such as tax returns and annual accounts, saving time and reducing errors.
* Availability: Altinn is available around the clock, allowing users to submit and receive documents at any time, which offers great flexibility compared to traditional postal services with limited hours.
* Integration with other systems: Altinn is designed to easily integrate with other systems in both the private and public sectors, enabling seamless data flow and efficiency.
* Environmentally friendly: By reducing the need for paper-based communication, Altinn contributes to more environmentally friendly administration.

Commit message:

Changes to legacy documentation (#1961)
* more direct speach

* improvements

* change get started documentation for correspondence

* what you get changes

* fix links

* fix url2

* url3

* fjern punktum

* add attachment size

* fix spelling error

* new spelling error

* Fixed writing error _index.nb.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Hammerbeck <andreas.hammerbeck@digdir.no>
Co-authored-by: Marianne Saltnes <130640130+MarianneSaltnes@users.noreply.github.com>

content/correspondence/what-do-you-get/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: What do you get?
linktitle: What do you get?
description: Main features of Altinn Correspondence 
tags: []
toc: true
weight: 20
---

Altinn 3 Corresponednce lets you send general and/or personal correspondences to users. The solution supports all languages, but have templates for Norwegian bokmål (nb), Norwegian nynorsk (nn) and English (en)

## Main Features

### Notifications
- Automatic notifications via email or SMS to users when they receive new correspondences.
- Reminder notification after 7 days if the correspondence is unread.
- Customized notification settings based on user preferences. This includes notification templates and custom notification addresses.

### Archiving and Storage
- All correspondences are stored in the user's inbox in Altinn.
- Retention policies that ensure correspondences are available as long as necessary according to legislation and guidelines.

### Access Control and Security
- Advanced access control ensuring that only authorized users can read the correspondences.
- Use of security mechanisms like encryption to protect the content.

### Search and Filtering Functions
- User-friendly search and filtering functions to quickly find specific correspondences.
- Ability to sort correspondences by various criteria such as date, sender, and message type.

### Integrations and APIs
- APIs allowing integration with other systems for sending and receiving correspondences.
- Possibility for automated message handling through integrated systems.

### Receipts and Confirmations
- The system provides receipts when a correspondence is delivered and opened by the recipient.
- Ability to send confirmations back to the sender that the correspondence has been read.

### User Administration
- Tools for managing user profiles and access.
- Functionality to assign correspondences to the correct user or unit within an organization.

### Support for Various Message Formats
- Ability to send correspondences in Markdown or clean text.
- Support for several attachments per correspondence, without limitation of type. PDF, XML and HTML will usually be the most common used.
- Supports attachments up to 250 MB. 

### Advanced Support for Linking to Content and Attachments

- As an alternative to sending correspondence content and attachments directly in the correspondences,
  the sender can choose to send links to content and attachments.
- Altinn Correspondence has functionality for uploading files with correspondence content and attachments,
  for secure storage and reuse across multiple correspondences.
- It is also possible to link to content and attachments stored elsewhere,
  e.g., on-premises at the sender or in the sender's preferred cloud solution.


### Integration with Dialogporten and Arbeidsflate

- Unified user interface across multiple messaging solutions through Altinn 3 Arbeidsflate.
- Activity log in Altinn 3 Dialogporten.

## Summary of advantages of Altinn Correspondence

Altinn Correspondence offers several unique benefits that make it the preferred choice for digital communication with public agencies in Norway:

* Centralized communication: Altinn Correspondence serves as a central hub where all communications with public authorities can be managed from one account. This eliminates the need to manage multiple accounts or platforms.
* Security and confidentiality: Regular email is often not considered secure enough in many contexts. Altinn Correspondence can be used for transferring sensitive information. The platform uses strong authentication and encryption techniques to protect user data.
* Automation of submissions: The system allows for the automation of submissions such as tax returns and annual accounts, saving time and reducing errors.
* Availability: Altinn is available around the clock, allowing users to submit and receive documents at any time, which offers great flexibility compared to traditional postal services with limited hours.
* Integration with other systems: Altinn is designed to easily integrate with other systems in both the private and public sectors, enabling seamless data flow and efficiency.
* Environmentally friendly: By reducing the need for paper-based communication, Altinn contributes to more environmentally friendly administration.
