content/app/development/ux/components/accordion/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Accordion
linktitle: Accordion
description: A component that allows you to group content into collapsible sections.
schemaname: Accordion # Component schema name used to autogenerate list of properies from json schema (replace with appropriate component name)
weight: 10 # Do not change, the componets will be sorted alphabetically
toc: true
hidden: false # Remove when creating new component page from template
---

{{% notice warning %}}
🚧 This documentation is a work in progress.
{{% /notice %}}

---

## Usage

The Accordion component allows users to expand and collapse content sections by clicking on the header,
 allowing for a space-efficient and organized way to present information.

### Anatomy

![Accordion closed anatomy](Accordion-closed-anatomy.png "Closed Accordion")

![Accordion open anatomy](Accordion-open-anatomy.png "Open Accordion")

{{% anatomy-list %}}
1. **Header**: The clickable section title that users interact with to expand or collapse the content.
2. **Content Area**: The area that expands or collapses, revealing or hiding additional information when the header is clicked. 
{{% /anatomy-list %}} 

<!-- 
Add the following sections if relevant:

### Behavior

(How the component behaves in different contexts)

### Style

(Visual styling (e.g. alignment, padding, dos and don'ts))

### Best Practices

(Industry standards, dos and don'ts)

### Content guidelines

(E.g. punctuation rules, standard labels, etc.)

### Accessibility

(Component-specific best practices for accessibility.)

### Mobile

(How to apply component in mobile environments.)

### Related

(List of related components or patterns, include links)

-->

## Properties

*Coming soon*

<!-- The following is an autogenerated list of the properties available for {{% title %}} based on the component's JSON schema file (linked below).

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating how we implement components, and the list of properties may not be entirely accurate.
{{% /notice %}}

The `component-props` shortcode automatically generates a list of component properties from the component's json schema.
The component name can be explicitly given as argument (e.g. `component-props "Grid"`).
If no argument is given, the shortcode pulls the component name from 'schemaname' in the frontmatter.

{{% component-props %}} -->

## Configuration

### Add component

You can add a component in [Altinn Studio Designer](/app/getting-started/ui-editor/) by dragging it from the left-side panel to the middle page area.
Selecting the component brings up its configuration panel on the right-hand side.

### Settings in Altinn Studio Designer

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating Altinn Studio with more configuration options!
 The documentation will be updated to reflect the changes once they are stable.
  In the meantime, there may be more options available in beta mode than is described here.
{{% /notice %}}

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}

Property settings available in Altinn Studio Designer.

{{% notice warning %}}
**NB!** The property `children` is required and must be [added manually](#children).
{{% /notice %}}

![Accordion settings in Altinn Studio](<Accordion-settings-panel.png> "Settings for Accordion in Altinn Studio")

- **Komponent-ID** (`id`): Automatically generated component ID (editable).

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

Corresponding settings in the page's JSON file.

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="6-9"}
...

{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
       {
        "id": "Accordion-3uoJMS",
        "type": "Accordion"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

### Add title and elements

<br>

#### `textResourceBindings.title`

The title for the Accordion can be added as text directly or referenced via a text key to a [text resource](/nb/app/development/ux/texts/#legge-til-og-endre-tekster-i-en-app).

#### `children`

Specify which components you want to expand by adding their IDs to an array under `children`.

The following types can be added to an `Accordion`:
- `Paragraph`
- `Button`

<br>

#### Example

Accordion with a paragraph and a button as child elements.

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines=["9-12"]}
...

{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
       {
        "id": "Accordion-3uoJMS",
        "type": "Accordion",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Lorem ipsum"
        },
        "children": ["lorem-ipsum", "ok-button"]
      },
      {
        "id": "lorem-ipsum",
        "type": "Paragraph",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Paragraph.loremIpsum1"
        },
        "dataModelBindings": {}
      },
      {
        "id": "ok-button",
        "type": "Button",
        "dataModelBindings": {},
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "OK"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

![Accordion example](<Accordion-title-and-children.png> "Accordion with paragraph and button")

### Heading Level

The default heading level is `2`. To change it, add the `headingLevel` property as shown in the code example below.
`headingLevel` can take values of `2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6`.

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="13"}
...

{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
       {
        "id": "Accordion-3uoJMS",
        "type": "Accordion",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Lorem ipsum"
        },
        "children": ["lorem-ipsum", "ok-button"],
        "headingLevel": 3
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

Commit message:

Update component docs (#1140)
* Added alias and related section with Panel component to Alert docs

Add alias to Alert component

Added 'Related' section to Alert with 'Panel' component listed

* Updated notice warning about settings in Studio

* Updated Accordion and AccordionGroup

* Fix links

---------

Co-authored-by: Therese Stokkan <therese.stokkan@accenture.com>

content/app/development/ux/components/accordion/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Accordion
linktitle: Accordion
description: A component that allows you to group content into collapsible sections.
schemaname: Accordion # Component schema name used to autogenerate list of properies from json schema (replace with appropriate component name)
weight: 10 # Do not change, the componets will be sorted alphabetically
toc: true
hidden: false # Remove when creating new component page from template
---

{{% notice warning %}}
🚧 This documentation is a work in progress.
{{% /notice %}}

---

## Usage

The Accordion component allows users to expand and collapse content sections by clicking on the header,
 allowing for a space-efficient and organized way to present information.

### Anatomy

![Accordion closed anatomy](Accordion-closed-anatomy.png "Closed Accordion")

![Accordion open anatomy](Accordion-open-anatomy.png "Open Accordion")

{{% anatomy-list %}}
1. **Header**: The clickable section title that users interact with to expand or collapse the content.
2. **Content Area**: The area that expands or collapses, revealing or hiding additional information when the header is clicked. 
{{% /anatomy-list %}} 

<!-- 
Add the following sections if relevant:

### Behavior

(How the component behaves in different contexts)

### Style

(Visual styling (e.g. alignment, padding, dos and don'ts))

### Best Practices

(Industry standards, dos and don'ts)

### Content guidelines

(E.g. punctuation rules, standard labels, etc.)

### Accessibility

(Component-specific best practices for accessibility.)

### Mobile

(How to apply component in mobile environments.)

-->
### Related

- [`AccordionGroup`](../accordiongroup/)


## Properties

| **Property** | **Type**                                       | **Description** |
|--------------|------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| `children`   | array | An array with the component ID of all components belonging to the group. **Enum:** `"Paragraph" \| "Button"` |
| `textResourceBindings.title` | string | Clickable section title  |

<!-- The following is an autogenerated list of the properties available for {{% title %}} based on the component's JSON schema file (linked below).

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating how we implement components, and the list of properties may not be entirely accurate.
{{% /notice %}}

The `component-props` shortcode automatically generates a list of component properties from the component's json schema.
The component name can be explicitly given as argument (e.g. `component-props "Grid"`).
If no argument is given, the shortcode pulls the component name from 'schemaname' in the frontmatter.

{{% component-props %}} -->

## Configuration

### Add component

You can add a component in [Altinn Studio Designer](/app/getting-started/ui-editor/) by dragging it from the left-side panel to the middle page area.
Selecting the component brings up its configuration panel on the right-hand side.

### Settings in Altinn Studio Designer

{{% notice warning %}}
We are currently updating Altinn Studio with more configuration options!
 The documentation is continuously updated, but more settings may be available than described here, and some settings may be in beta.
{{% /notice %}}

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Altinn Studio Designer">}}

Property settings available in Altinn Studio Designer.

{{% notice warning %}}
**NB!** The property `children` is required and must be [added manually](#children).
{{% /notice %}}

![Accordion settings in Altinn Studio](<Accordion-settings-panel.png> "Settings for Accordion in Altinn Studio")

- **Komponent-ID** (`id`): Automatically generated component ID (editable).

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

Corresponding settings in the page's JSON file.

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="6-9"}
...

{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
       {
        "id": "Accordion-3uoJMS",
        "type": "Accordion"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

### Add title and elements

<br>

#### `textResourceBindings.title`

The title for the Accordion can be added as text directly or referenced via a text key to a [text resource](/nb/app/development/ux/texts/#legge-til-og-endre-tekster-i-en-app).

#### `children`

Specify which components you want to expand by adding their IDs to an array under `children`.

The following types can be added to an `Accordion`:
- `Paragraph`
- `Button`

<br>

#### Example

Accordion with a paragraph and a button as child elements.

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines=["9-12"]}
...

{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
       {
        "id": "Accordion-3uoJMS",
        "type": "Accordion",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Lorem ipsum"
        },
        "children": ["lorem-ipsum", "ok-button"]
      },
      {
        "id": "lorem-ipsum",
        "type": "Paragraph",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Paragraph.loremIpsum1"
        },
        "dataModelBindings": {}
      },
      {
        "id": "ok-button",
        "type": "Button",
        "dataModelBindings": {},
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "OK"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}

![Accordion example](<Accordion-title-and-children.png> "Accordion with paragraph and button")

### Heading Level

The default heading level is `2`. To change it, add the `headingLevel` property as shown in the code example below.
`headingLevel` can take values of `2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6`.

{{<content-version-selector classes="border-box">}}
{{<content-version-container version-label="Code">}}

{{< code-title >}}
App/ui/layouts/{page}.json
{{< /code-title >}}

```json{hl_lines="13"}
...

{
  "data": {
    "layout": [
       {
        "id": "Accordion-3uoJMS",
        "type": "Accordion",
        "textResourceBindings": {
          "title": "Lorem ipsum"
        },
        "children": ["lorem-ipsum", "ok-button"],
        "headingLevel": 3
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```
{{</content-version-container>}}
{{</content-version-selector>}}
