content/api/authentication/delegate-scopes/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Delegate API Access to a Supplier
linktitle: Delegate API Access
description: Description of how service owner can delegate API accesses (scopes) to a subcontractor.
toc: true
tags: [translate-to-english]
---

Enkelte tjenesteeiere ønsker at en underleverandør skal kunne agere på vegne av dem, f.eks. leverandører av fagsystemer.
For å få til det, så må disse API-tilgangene delegeres til leverandøren ved bruk av Altinn.

Det er tjenesteeiers ansvar å selv fjerne delegeringene om behovet for tilgang hos leverandør forsvinner.

## Delegering av API-tilganger til leverandør

Som en bruker som er nøkkelrolleinnehaver for tjenesteeier (typisk daglig leder aka DAGL), åpne "Andre med rettigheter til virksomheten".

![Andre med rettigheter](andre-med-rettigheter.png "Andre med rettigheter til virksomheten")

![Legg til leverandør](legg-til-org.png "Legg til leverandørens organisasjon")

Så må de nødvendige rettighetene gis.

- **Altinn tjenesteeier-API: Appinstanser (full tilgang)** - gir tilgang til [scopes](#scopes) for både read og write.
- **Altinn tjenesteeier-API: Appinstanser (lesetilgang)** - gir kun tilgang til read.

![Gi rettigheter til leverandør](gi-rettigheter.png "Gi de nødvendige rettighetene til leverandør")

![Bekreft](bekreft-gi-rettigheter.png "Bekreft")

## Fjerning av delegering

Delegeringer som er gjort kan også fjernes.
Om en leverandør ikke lenger har behov for API-tilganger så er det tjenesteeier sitt ansvar å fjerne disse.

![Fjern rettigheter](fjern-en-eller-flere-rettigheter.png "Trykk på \"Fjern en eller flere rettigheter\"")

![Velg rettigheter å fjerne](fjern-rettigheter.png "Velg rettigheter å fjerne")

![Angre fjern rettigheter](angre-fjern-rettigheter.png "Det er mulig å angre fjerning av rettigheter")

![Fjerning av rettigheter bekreftet](fjerning-bekreftet.png "Bekreftelse på at rettigheter er fjernet")

## Scopes

Delegering gir tilgang til disse scopene for leverandør:

```js
altinn:serviceowner/instances.read
altinn:serviceowner/instances.write
```

Commit message:

Tok new screnshots only one was available in english so keeps the bokmål version for the rest but made it posible to switch out whwn available by added two sets of the pictures and use one in bokmål and the other in english version of the page. Tok the english page trough google translate to make it a bit nearer a english page.

content/api/authentication/delegate-scopes/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Delegate API Access to a Supplier
linktitle: Delegate API Access
description: Description of how service owner can delegate API accesses (scopes) to a subcontractor.
toc: true
tags: [translate-to-english]
---

Certain service owners want a subcontractor to be able to act on their behalf, e.g. suppliers of specialist systems.
To achieve that, these API accesses must be delegated to the provider using Altinn.

It is the service owner's responsibility to remove the delegations themselves if the supplier no longer need access.

## Delegation of API access to the supplier

As a service owner key role user (typically general manager aka DAGL), open "Access to the Application Programming Interface - API".

![Andre med rettigheter](en_delegate-scopes-01.png "Access to the Application Programming Interface - API")

![Add the supplier](en_delegate-scopes-02.png "Add the supplier's organization")

![Proceed](en_delegate-scopes-03.png "Proceed to the next step")

Så må de nødvendige rettighetene gis.

- **Altinn Service Owner API: App Instances (full access)** - provides access to [scopes](#scopes) for both read and write.
- **Altinn service owner API: App instances (read access)** - only provides read access.

![Grant rights to supplier](en_delegate-scopes-04.png "Grant the necessary rights to the supplier")

![Gå videre](en_delegate-scopes-05.png "Gå videre til neste steg")

![Confirm](en_delegate-scopes-06.png "Confirm")

![To the overview](en_delegate-scopes-07.png "Go back to the overview")

## Removal of delegation

Delegations that have been made can also be removed.
If a supplier no longer needs API access, it is the service owner's responsibility to remove these.

![Remove rights](en_revoke-scopes-01.png "Tap \"Edit Access\"")

![Select rights to remove](en_revoke-scopes-02.png "Select rights to remove")

![Save changes](en_revoke-scopes-03.png "Save changes")

![Undo remove rights](en_revoke-scopes-04.png "It is possible to undo the removal of rights")

![The overview page shows the remaining delegations](en_revoke-scopes-05.png "The overview page shows the remaining delegations")

## Scopes

Delegation gives access to these scopes for the supplier:

```js
altinn:serviceowner/instances.read
altinn:serviceowner/instances.write
```
