content/notifications/getting-started/altinn-app/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Altinn App Integration
description: How to get started sending notifications from an Altinn App
weight: 10
---

## 1. Create and Configure your Altinn App

To begin, create and configure your Altinn aAp using Altinn Studio and your preferred code editor.
Ensure you are using version 8.1.0 or higher of the app NuGet packages to support native notifications. 
For optimal performance and security, we recommend always using the latest stable version.

Detailed documentation on Altinn App development in the [Altinn Studio documentation](/altinn-studio).

## 2. Review policy for relevant resources in Altinn Resource Registry

{{% insert "content/notifications/shared/getting-started/resource/get-started-resource.en.md" %}}


## 3. Familiarize yourself with the guidelines and best practice for sending notifications
{{% insert "content/notifications/shared/getting-started/guidelines/guidelines.en.md" %}}

## 4. Configure your app to send notifications

Please reference [the Altinn App reference documentation](/altinn-studio/reference/logic/notifications/) on how to 
set up you app to send notifications.

Commit message:

Update the Notification documentation to introduce the placeholder keywords. (#1951)
* #545 Mention customizability in the introduction

* Improve the features explanation

* Duplicate the same features explanation for NO

* Improve the Altinn App Integration section

* Improve the Service Owner System Integration

* Improve the Terminology page

* Improve a text

* Explain the new keywords and fix typos.

* Update the SMS documentation and fix typos

* Fix mismatch in text

* Improve the send notification documentation

* Improve a sentence

* Improve the order cancelling documentation

* Improve a phrase

* Improve the email retrieval documentation

* Extend the documentation

* Improve the documentation

* Improve a sentence and an example

* Improve order status documentation

* Update get SMS notifications document

* Improve two phrases.

* Update a text

* Remove a line

* Use SMS instead of sms

* Use SMS instead of sms

* Replace sms with SMS

* Enhance address lookup documentation

* Improve the Recipient lookup documentation

* Improve the SendCondition documentation

* Highlight parts of the example

* Highlight parts of code

* Update a GUID

* Make a sentence clearer

* Apply suggestions

* Apply suggestions

* Remove an line break

content/notifications/getting-started/altinn-app/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Altinn App Integration
description: How to get started sending notifications from an Altinn App.
weight: 10
---

## 1. Create and configure your Altinn App

Start by creating and configuring your Altinn App using Altinn Studio and your preferred code editor. 
Ensure that your app uses version 8.1.0 or higher of the NuGet packages to enable native notifications.
For optimal performance and security, always use the latest stable version.

For detailed guidance on Altinn App development, refer to the [Altinn Studio documentation](/altinn-studio).

## 2. Review policies for relevant resources in the Altinn Resource Registry

{{% insert "content/notifications/shared/getting-started/resource/get-started-resource.en.md" %}}

## 3. Understand guidelines and best practices for sending notifications

{{% insert "content/notifications/shared/getting-started/guidelines/guidelines.en.md" %}}

## 4. Set up your app to send notifications

Follow the instructions in the [Altinn App reference documentation](/altinn-studio/reference/logic/notifications/) to configure your app for sending notifications.
