content/app/app-dev-course/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: Intro course
description: An introductory course to app development with Altinn Studio and local dev tools.
linktitle: Intro course
tags: [apps, build, deploy, training]
weight: 15
---

This intro course is divided into six modules and covers a fictitious case for the municipality of Sogndal.
Over the course of these six modules, you will have gone through the main functionality of an Altinn App,
as well as testing the app locally and in a test environment.

Three things have to be in order before you can get started with this course.

1. [A user in Altinn Studio](/app/getting-started/create-user/#create-a-user-in-altinn-studio)
2. [Your local development environment is set up with support for development and testing of apps](https://github.com/Altinn/app-localtest/blob/master/README.md#prerequisites)
3. [Access to an organization with a test environment](/app/getting-started/create-user/#join-an-organization)*

\* A prerequisite for module 3. The remaining modules can be completed with full learning benefits without this being set up.

![Are you ready?](the-goon-dodgeball.gif)

### Let's get started!

### Read through the municipality of Sogndal's case, and work through it module by module.

{{<children />}}

Commit message:

Updated app-dev-course _index.en.md to match _index.nb.md. (#951)
Co-authored-by: Therese Stokkan <therese.stokkan@accenture.com>

content/app/app-dev-course/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: Intro Course
description: Build an application with Altinn Studio
linktitle: Intro Course
tags: [apps, build, deploy, training]
weight: 15
---

The intro course is divided into 7 modules and covers a fictional case for Sogndal Municipality.
Each module has a description of the task and links to relevant documentation.

You can choose to perform the tasks in [Altinn Studio Designer](/app/getting-started/ui-editor) (drag-and-drop graphical user interface) or in a [local development environment](/app/getting-started/local-dev) (requires some technical skills).
You can also combine these approaches.

Throughout these seven modules, you will have covered the most essential functionality for an Altinn app, as well as testing the application locally and in a test environment.

{{% notice info %}}
**NOTE**

**To have a fully functional application, some local development is currently required.**
New functionality is continually added to the Designer, and the documentation is updated regularly.
Module 1 can be completed entirely in Altinn Studio Designer.
{{% /notice %}}

## Before you start

Before you can build an application, there are some things that need to be in place. Go through the following points from
**[Get Started](/app/getting-started)** (wait with the remaining points until [Module 1](/app/app-dev-course/modul1)):

1. [Create a user](/app/getting-started/create-user)
2. [Learn to navigate Altinn Studio](/app/getting-started/navigation)
3. [Get familiar with Altinn Studio Designer](/app/getting-started/ui-editor)

Read through the requirements specifications (case description) for Sogndal Municipality and work through the modules step by step.

**Good luck!**

{{<children />}}
